Okay.  So  we  start  the  class. So  in  the  last  week,  we started  the  data  preparation  for  machine, and  so  we  started  was  to  explode data  to  identify  the  issues  in  the  data, in  the  problem  and  the  auto  problem. If  the  issues  exist, then  take  measures  to address  the  issues  to  handle  them. As  we  studied  the  preparations include  the  normalization  or standardization  and  also  the roughly  have  the  idea  of  theology  reduction. We  assume  of  this  part the  data  is  well  prepared  for  linear. From  this  week,  we're  going  to study  no  different  types  of  linear. In  other  words,  we're  going to  study  different  types  of pen  classifies  and also  the  corresponding  linear  algithms. The  first  one  I'm  going  to  study is  the  basic  de  theory. It  is  a  kind  of probability  based  pen  classic. Given  an  example,  we  need  to  estimate the  probabilities  of  the  sample belonging  to  different  classes. Then  based  on  this estimation,  we  mimic  decia. We  assign  a  class  label  to  the  sample. Based  on  these  probabilities. Here  we  have  one  example in  the  classification  of the  two  type  of  fish. The  left  one  is  a  sea  base. The  right  one  is  a  salmon  fish. For  us,  there  was  no  issue to  separate  the  two  type  of  fish  easily. One,  the  salmon  phase  is  longer, and  also  the  color  is  different  from  the  one, the  left  hand  side,  sea  base  is  smaller and  also  the  color  different  of  the  tool. Then  we  have  no  problem  identify the  separate  two  type  of  fish. But  now  we  need  to  develop a  machine  lining  githm, p  classified  to  perform  this  classification. And  as  I  mentioned,  this  part  is a  probability  based  pin  clasification. Here  we  have  at  least  four  concept related  to  probabilities. The  first  probability  is called  p  probability. Assume  that  the  two  classes  are denoted  by  Omega  one  and  Omega  two. For  each  of  the  two  classes, we  have  a  p  probability  P  Omega  one, for  class  one  and  P  O  M  two  for  class  two. If  there  are  only  two  title  fish  here, no  additional  title  fish, then  address  the  summation of  the  two  probability  should  be  one. This  is  the  property of  the  par  probabilities. This  is  a  concept  probability. Maybe  I  next  slide to  explain  the  probability. So  probability  is  a  probability  of an  event  occurring before  considering  new  evidence. It  represents  the  initial  belief  of the  probability  of  an  event that  is  going  to  happen.  Initial  belief. This  is  called  a  prior  probability. We  don't  have  see  evidence. This  just  based  on  initial  knowledge, like  the  sample  distribution, training  data  for  each  class. Based  on  this  knowledge, we  have  the  prior  probabilities. Here,  give  you  another  example  of  apability. For  example,  we  know that  class  compensation  of  this  course, 64  oh  seven,  60%  male  student, 40%  female  student. This  are  class  comps  female  male  student. This  knowledge  based  on  this  knowledge, and  then  the  prob  probability  for  class  one, the  male  is  0.6, then  the  probability  for  female  is  0.4. This  probability  basically  is the  dibuion  of  the  sample  in  each  class, percentage  of  sample  in  each  class. Y  percent  female,  60%  male, the  percentage  of  sample each  class  male  class  female. This  is  the  probabilities. If  we  have  no  other  information, if  you  are  forced  to  make  decision based  on  probabilities, and  then  we  will  this  example. For  example,  sums  are  late. If  I  ask  you,  can  you  predict, can  you  imagine  the  gender of  the  student,  the  next  student? I  think  sums  will  come. If  you  have  no  information, you  have  not  seen  this  student. Then  based  on  your  knowledge,  this  stu, this  classroom,  know the  male  student  majority. At  60%  or  70%, female  is  only  40%  30%. Then  you  will  guess,  most likely  the  next  coming  student  will  be a  male  student  because this  male  student  has a  larger  probabilities  p  probabilities. This  is  the  classification based  on  probabilities. Then  there  is  the  issue  here. Because  a  female  student has  a  lower  probability  than  a  male  student. Then  every  time  the  predation will  be  a  male  student  male  student. In  other  words,  the  classification is  meaningless  now  because every  sample  will  be  assigned  to the  class  with  greater  probabilities. All  samples  will  be  assigned to  one  single  class. The  class  has  the  highest  probabilities. Of  course,  pies,  we  cannot make  it  de  si  just  based  on  probability. But  if  we  have  two,  then  we  based on  which  probability  is  greater. But  then  we  know  if we  based  on  this  probability, 40%  of  the  samples will  be  classified  wrongly? Because  all  female  students will  be  classified  as  a  male  student. These  are  40%  area. This  is  really a  very  big  classification  area. In  reality,  we normally  beside  these  propabilities, we  must  have  other  information. For  example,  for  the  fish, for  the  fish,  we  could have  other  information  about  the  fish. For  example,  what  is the  length  or  the  width  of  the  fish? What  is  the  laines  of the  fish,  the  color,  tines? This  is  color  or  latin  of  the  fish  or the  width  or  length  of the  fish,  provide  additional  information. We  should  actually  combine this  information together  with  the  propabilities. To  me,  then  we  have  a  new  evidence. We  have  a  new  evidence.  Okay. S,  we  introduce  another  probability. That  is  called  class conditional  probab  density  function, probability  of  x  given  Omega. If  we  know  the  sample  this sample  this  class  belong to  all  the  sample belongs  to  class  Omega  y,  for  example. What  is  the  distribution  of  the  tins? What  is  the  distribution  of  the  length? We,  even  for  the  salmon  feature, the  latin  would  be  different  from one  fish  to  another  fish. Also  the  length  would  be  different. In  other  female  student. For  example,  the  feature, the  bad  width  could  be  a  feature, bod  weight,  and  also maybe  the  height  could  be  a  feature. The  height  of  a  male  student  could  be  from 1.6  meter  maybe  until  maybe  two  meter. It  is  a  big  range.  For  female could  also  be  another  range. This  is  we  need  to  think  about  so  this  is the  concept  of a  class  cdinal  density  function. Class  conditional,  that  mean for  a  specific  class, what  is  the  diribution  of  the  variable  x? Probability  of  x  given  the  Omega. This  is  a  class  cdinal  probability  density. In  practice,  when  we are  required  to  make  decisions, normally,  we  have  three  things. Firstly,  the  probabilities. Maybe  before  that, maybe  this  figure  shows the  density  function for  two  different  classes. Omega  one,  Omega  two. The  vertical  axis  is  the  probability. The  horizontal  axis  is  the  value  of the  x,  the  feature. If  this  is  the  width  of the  fish  or  tins  of  the  fish, this  is  the  horizontal  axis. Then  we  can  see  for  Omega  two, the  p  values  maybe  around  11.5. That  means  at  this  point, maybe  the  majority  of a  large  portion  of  the  salmon  fish, has  the  weight  of  maybe  like  11.5,  Latine. Maybe  for  the  fish  sea  base, maybe  the  Latins  maybe  the  p  value around  the,  something  like  that. This  is  the  density  function  for  two  classes. Each  class  has  this  two. Each  cl  has  its  own  density  function. This  denen  function  normally need  to  be  estimated  from  training  data. In  the  last  week,  we  see  in  main  new  system, firstly  we  need  to  have  data, and  for  super  nu, we  to  have  vea  chew  data. We  need  to  estimate  or  we  can estimate  this  density  function from  the  training  data. For  the  power  probability,  we  can  also estimate  from  the  trig  training  data. Give  me  a  train  of  data, we  can  have  the  probability, and  also  we  can  have  this  density  function. B  dense  fun  can  be obtained  from  the  train  sample. From  train  sample,  we can  obtain  the  probability, we  can  also  obtain  the  density  function. Then  based  on  this, which  are  attempt  from  the  train  data, we  can  classify  a  sample. This  sample  is  a  teching  sample. For  this  tech  sample,  we  have a  specific  value  for  this  x, for  example  x  equal  to  1.3. So  no  one  for  the  t, or  the  x  equal  to,  like  15. This  is  latin  of  the  fish. Can  you  based  on  this  measurement together  with  the  train  data, where  we  can  get  the  probability  and also  the  dense  function  to perform  classification? A,  we  can  combine  the  three. The  measure  fish  value  for  a  tattoo  sample, the  probability  and  the  density  function estimated  from  the  tal  sample. Based  on  this,  we  can perform  a  clasification. Here,  we  come  to  the  concept. This  concept  is  called the  posterior  probability. Based  on  the  base  theorem, the  probability  of  Omega  j  given  x. Now  we  have  this  x  value  for  the  tal  sample. What  is  the  probability  of  this  sample belong  to  Omega  j? The  P  mega  gave  x. Based  on  the  base  theorem, actually  we  study  theorem maybe  during  your  undergrad  study. Normally,  this  should  be  year  one, year  two,  two  engineer  math. We  study  probability  and  statistics, we  studied  this  theorem. Probably  you  do  not  know where  this  theorem  could  be  used. Could  be  used  in  the  classification  man. The  probability  magical  x  equals probability  of  x  given mega  g.  This  density  function, class  continual  density  function  times probability  of  Omega, then  divided  by  the  px. This  Omega  given  x is  called  posterior  probability. We  have  the  p  probability. Now  this  posterior  probability  is obtained  based on  the  the  measurement  of  x,  new  evidence. This  P  Omega  j  x is  called  posterior  probability. Now  we  have  probability, Cs  conditional  density,  probabilsy, and  also  we  have  the  posterior  probability. P  Omega  given  x  equal  to the  px  mega  give mga  time  P  O  omega  g  divided  by  px, Px  here  is  called  probability  of  x, and  I  the  numerica  in  this  p  probability. The  numerica  part  is just  a  joint  probability  of  x  and  omega. Joint  probability. We  have  a  four  concept, probability  joint  probability. So  I  introdu  Maybe I'll  show  the  joint  probability  first. These  are  joint  probability. P  x,  y,  the  joint  probability  x  and  y equals  probability  of  x given  y  times  the  probability  of  y. By  this  semble  x, and  also  we  have  omega  j. The  numeric  part  is just  the  joint  probability  of  x  and  omega  j. In  classification,  we  should not  make decisions  based  on  the  probabilities. We  should  make  decisions based  on  the  poi  probabilities. Be  postal  probability consider  other  evidence  X, the  length  of  the  fish or  the  latin  of  the  fish. This  is  new  evidence. Also  to  consider the  conditional  probability  function at  which  can  be derived  from  the  training  samples. We  should  not  use  probability because  if  we  use  probabilities, the  evidence  no  use We  should  use  poor probability  to  make  decisions. For  any  given  training  sample, a  testing  sample,  we  can always  calculate  the  poor  probability. Then  we  will  assign the  sample  to  the  class  with a  greater  pus  probability. This  is  just  the  base  decision  rule. Design  class  one,  we assign  the  sample  to  Omega  one, if  the  poor  probability  of  Omega  one  given x  is  greater  than probability  of  Omega  two  give  x. If  Pa  two  given  x  is  greater, then  we  assign  the  sample  to  Omega  two. This  is  a  basic  the  basic  design  rule. We  assign  the  sample  to  the  class  with the  greatest  poor  probability. This  is  a  basic  rule. We  perform  classification  based  on the  pier  probabilities  rather than  the  prior  probabilities. Just  now  we  have  seen  the  calculation of  the  p  probability. In  the  denominator  part  is  a  px. This  px  is  a  common  calor,  a  common  factor. We  have  this  px,  when  we cal  P  Omega  one  given  x. We  have  this  x,  we  have  this  px, when  we  calculate  P  Omega  two  given  x. This  is  a  common  factor  is  a  scaling  factor. I  pert,  we  may  not  have  to  calculate  the  px. We  can  just  use  the  numerical  part, which  is  the  und  probability to  make  decisions. We  can  ignore  the  p  because  p  is common  in  the  calculation of  the  psi  probabilities  for  each  class. We  can  put  based  on  this.  Also  later, we  can  see  there  are also  some  variants  of  this. We  can  also  take  the  local  rhythm  operation, and  then  we  based  on the  long  of  the  probability  to  make  deans. This  is  decision  making  based  on the  p  probability  or  the  ground  probability. Then  here,  we  have  studied  a  probability, class  inal  propensity, and  then  the  po  zero  probability, and  then  the  joint  probability. We  have  suggested  a  few  concepts. We  should  be  able  to  differentiate the  menus  of  these  four  probabilities. Just  now  we  just  have  a  very simple  example  and  we assume  at  only  there  is a  one  feature  x  one  feature  x. Actually,  we  can  generate this  two  scenario  with  multiple  features. In  pert  we  never  know  or  rarely, we  have  a  problem  with  only  one  feature. Normally  we  have  achieve  multiple  features. In  other  words,  each  sample is  represented  by  a  f  vector. This  feature  vector  could contain  multiple  features  like  X  one, X  two  and  X  d.  Then the  feature  vector  is  a  dimensional  vector. Each  sample  is  denoted  or represented  by  a  d dimensional  feature  vector. This  is  the  gener  one  kind  of  generalization from  single  feature  to  multiple  features. We  can  also  generalize  the  number  of  classes. Just  now  we  only  have  two  classes. Sam  base,  Omega  one,  Omega  two. At  in  many  applications, and  we  could  have  multiple  classes. Omega  one,  Omega  two, Omega  three,  maybe  Omega  100,  even  1,000. We  can  have  more  than  two  classes. We  generalize  this.  Send  the  x. Now  we  no  longer we  no  longer  use  one  single  x. We  use  a  vector. Actually  my  a  small  lose  letter to  denote  a  vector. A  bone  pas  capital  letter  to  denote  a  mats. Here,  this  x  locates bone  fase  letter  to  denote  the  fatal  actor, and  the  classes  numbers  C  Omega  one, Omega  20  Omega  C.  It's  multiple  classes. For  this,  I  also  use  the  basic  theorem. The  posterior  probability  of Omega  j  given  the  feature  of  actor  x. And  this  should  be  equal  to the  jo  probability  of Omega  and  the  oficial  vector  x. That  the  p  x given  Omega  j  and  then  times  the  P  mega. Then  divided  by  the  p,  p  is  just against  the  probability  of  x. P  X  omega  to  the  P  omega,  1-3. This  is  also  a  common  denominator. We  can  ignore  the  px. We  can  make  decisions  just  based  on the  joint  probabilities  of the  fatal  vector  x  and  the  omega. These  are  exists  to multiple  features  and  also to  multiple  classes. Then  we  will  make  a  decision  based  on which  probability  or which  joint  probability  is  the  maximum. Next,  we  introduce a  more  general  concept in  patent  classification, and  so  this  is  called  dismal  function. A  here  in  the  bas  decision  rule, we  make  decisions,  we perform  classifications  based  on the  probability  p  probability or  ran  probabilities. But  in  other  type  of  classified, we  don't  have  the  probability  measures. We  have  other  measures. In  general,  actually  we use  the  so  called  dismal  function. For  each  class,  we can  have  a  disinal  function. And  given  the  SME  input, we  can  calculate  the  disminal function  for  each  class. Then  we  can  compare the  values  of  dimeral  functions, and  then  to  identify the  one  with  the  maximum  value, then  we  can  assign  the  sample  to  that  class. This  is  the  architecture where  we  have  a  multiple  classes, and  for  each  class, we  have  a  disinal  function. We  have  x1x  and  x  d, the  same  input  vector,  the  Dminal  vector. Then  this  der  va  that goes  to  dismal  function  G  one. Then  we  calculate  dismal  function  value  g1x. Then  we  have  another  function  g  two. This  G  two  is  for  class two,  G  one  is  for  class  one. Then  we  have  GC, GC  is  for  class  C.  For every  sample,  take  sample  here. X.  No,  we  can  have  a  dismal  function  values. Then  we  compare  these  values. We  identify  which  value  is  the  maximum. Then  we  will  assign  a  sample  to  that  class. If  the  Gj  x  is  the  maximum, then  we  will  assign  the  sample  to  class  ma. This  is  a  very  general  architecture and  a  very  general  concept  dismal  function in  pen  classification. Of  course,  here,  the  dismal  fs  decision  rule, and  the  g  one  this  dismal  function  is just  posterior  probability  or at  the  john  probabilities. Scenario,  It  this  g  one, g  two,  GC  spec  form. This  is  the  posterior  probability of  john  probabilities. G.  This  could  be  just  the  p  zero  probability, P  omega  j  given  x. Or  this  GJ  could  be  the  join  probability. P  x  given  omega  times  P  omega. This  is  a  joint  probability  of  x  and  omega. Or  we  can  use  localihm  of the  john  probability  as  the  dis  function. Because  he  is  the  multiplication  of  two, p  probability  and  class  density. Here  if  we  perform  logarithm  operation, then  this  become  the  summation  summation. We  also  use  the  g  pusher  probability  or the  john  probability  or  the  log  of the  oh  probability  to  perform  classification. For  every  sample,  we  can  calculate  the  g  one, g22gc,  and  then  we  find  the  maximum  value. Then  we  assign  the  sample  to  that  class. The  dismal  function  here is  the  psi  probability, probability  of  the  log  of  sorry, the  p  probability  jo  probability  of the  localihm  of  the  jo  probability. This  serve  as  the  dismal  function. A  Dismal  function  is  a  very  general  concept. I  other  classifies, dismal  function  is  the  other  forms, not  this  kind  of  form. O From a  analysis, we  know  in  the  base  decision  rule, I  think  we  need  these  two  information. The  information  is  the  probability  P  Omega. O  P,  we  also  need the  information  of  the  class  density, class  conditional  density  function. P  x  given  mg.  As  I  mentioned, at  both  can  be estimated  from  the  given  t  samples. And  the  prior  probability can  be  easily  estimated. Given  some  training  samples, you  count  ho  man  samples belong  to  class  Omega  one. Home  sample  belong  to  class  Omega  two. You  can  count  the  number  of sample  in  each  class. Then  you  divided  the  total  number  of  samples. Then  you  can  get  the  percentage of  samples  of  class  one, percentage  of  sample  in  class  two, percentage  of  sample  in  class  three. This  is  no  percentage, you  just  use  the  probabilities. This  can  be  easily  obtained. The  probability  can  be  easily obtained  from  the  training  sample. We  just  count  number  of  sample  in  each  class, then  we  divide  the  total  number  of samples.  We  get  the  percentage. This  percentage  is  just  a  probability. Then  another  part  of  P  X  or  Ma  or M.  This  is the  class  conditional  density  function. A,  this  part  also need  to  be  estimated from  the  training  samples. But  this  density  function  is estimation  or construction  is  very  challenging. Firstly,  even don't  know  what  function  to  use. Do  you  know  which  funtion  to use  for  the  probably  density? I  treat  this  is  a  changing  problem to  estimate  the  density  function based  on  the  chaining  samples. But  here  we  simplify  the  problem. We  assume  that  samples follow  normal  distribution  or  ga  disbutions. We  simplify  the  problem. Later  we  will  see  even  the  data does  not  follow  normal  distributions. Actually,  we  can  actually  construct this  dense  function using  multiple  gaucan  components. That  is  the  gaucan  mist  model. Later  today  we'll  talk  about  that. But  here  we  assume the  data  actually follows  a  normal  distribution. If  I  follow  a  normal  distribution, then  first  consider  the  uni  scenario. That  means  we  just  have  one  feature. This  is  the  the  function. P  x,  x  here  is  one  single  variable, given  Omega  equal  to  one  divided by  square  root  of  two  P  P  3.14. Sigma  is  poential, the  half  of  x  minus  u  divided  by  Sigma. I  this  actually  univarian  function or  normal  density  function, we  have  two  parameters. One  is  the,  another  Sigma. A  we  will  really  this  and  Sigma, actually,  In  the  last  week, we  talk  about  the  espion  data. On  measure  of  the  data  is the  central  tendency,  the  main  value. The  Mu  is  here  is  just  the  main  value. Another  measure  is  the  spread of  the  data,  the  dispersion. We  use  the  sands  or  variance  to  measure. So  Standision,  Sigma  is  just  the  sndion. In  this  esen  function, we  have  two  parameters. One  is  the  main  value, another  is  the  standian. If  we  just  have  one  feature, if  we  want  to  construct  the  density  function, if  we  use  this  dense  function,  g  function. Then  we  just  need  to  estimate the  two  values  from  the  train  samples. One  is  the  s,  the  same  division, another  is  the  mean  value. As  long  as  the  two  values  are  known, then  the  dese  function  is  known. Because  this  cat  function  just has  at  two  parameters. Also  we  assume  at  the  data for  normal  distribution  or  gaa  distribution. In  other  words,  the  des function  and  could  be  easily  obtained, for  a  single  case,  for  the  single  variable. That  is  the  univary  normal  functions. Of  course,  in  prate  we  could  have more  than  21  variable. We  can  have  multiple  in some  studies,  number  of  features, the  D,  the  Dm  of  the  feature  vector is  40  than  is  so  high. Okay.  This  is  the  diagram  shows as  f,  g  function. So  I  think  the  me the  me  mean  value  has  the  maximum  prob  value, so  maximum  value,  and then  me  minima,  me  pligma. Normally,  67%  of  the  data will  be  in  the  rage  from  mesima  to  me  pima. Then  from  minus  two  Sigma and  Mu  plus  two  them  in  this  range, the  95%  of  the  data  will  be  in  this  range. This  is  the  meaning  of  dense  function. We  see  the  value  in not  just  one  single  value, follow  a  distribution. It  is  in  a  range. This  is  the  normal  density  function. This  is  just  a  uni  rate, Uni  rate  feature,  single  variable. But  in  practice,  we could  have  multiple  features. If  we  multiple  features  as  a  tree, we  can  use  a  tree  the multi  variate  normal  density  function. This  is  the  multi  normal  density  function. P  x,  x  as  a  feature  vector  given  Omega. This  is  Omega  Omega  ora  any  class, equal  to  1/2  p  d  half  divided  by  two. The  d  dominoit  of  the  vector  x. I  single  d  is  just  one. Two  p  half  there  is  a  square  root  two p.  D  here  is  them  of  the  fature  vector. Then,  here  is  a  mean  vector, no  longer  mean  v  is  mean  vector, because  x  is  the  feature  vector. It's  not  just  one  scalar. C  is  a  matrix. This  matrix  is  a  is  a  d  by d.  This  cor  matrix. These  are  actually  1/2  p  power  half  D, C,  that  is  actually absolute  value,  not  absolute  value. That  is  the  determinant  of  a  matrix. Determine  of  the  con  matrix. C  minus  one,  that  is these  inverse  matrix  of  the  c  cent  matrix. Here  is  ex  is  ponential, x  minus  u  transpose  C  inverse  of  c  x  minus. Here  we  assume  that  x  is  a  column  vector. X  minus  is  co  transpose  become  a  rule  tor. The  multiply  a  matrix. Then  multiply  a  co  vector. Inside  the  exponential  operation, as  a  scalar,  scalar. This  is  the  multi  normal  dense  function. In  this  function,  we  also have  two  parameters. One  is  a  mean  vect  mean  vector. Another  is  a  con  metric  C.  Of  course, each  of these  two  parameter  has  multiple  values. B  is  mean  vector. The  vector  that  means  that  it has  multiple  elements. C  is  the  matrix, d  by  d.  This  d  by  d, that  means  that  we  have  d  times  d  values. Value. Of  course,  cent  matric  normally  is  symmetric. This  is  a  multivariate  normal  dense  function. Here,  grin  samples. How  to  estimate  the  C  and  the  me. Then  we  can  determine  the  dense  function. If  we  assume  that  four  data follow  normal  distribution. Follow  normal  dibuion,  then  we  can  use this  multi  v  normal  function. For  the  density  function, class  continual  density  function. The  key  issue  here  is  again the  estimation  of  the  me  and  the  C, the  mean  vector  and  the  cent  matches. This  is  the  key  issue. I  want  to  estimate  this  from the  tran  samples.  Okay. This  is  just  the  diagram shows  the  da  attribution  rout. Here  we  have  two  features,  X  one,  X  two, then  the  center  part. This  is  the  mean  vector. This  is  a  diuion. So  more  data  actually  are  close in  the  near  neighborhood  of  the  main  vector. The  further  away  from  the  main  vector  that  we have  a  few  samples,  few  samples. This  is  the  data  attribution. We  just  have  a  viization  in  two  d  space. But  normally  the  data  is  high  dimensional, more  than  three  and  then we  cannot  see  the  data. This  is.  Net,  we think  about  the  primary  estimation for  the  caia  dent  function. Give  me  a  examples, how  to  measure  how  to estimate  the  mean  vector  and the  cron  matrix.  How  to  measure  this. I  think  I  believe  actually, you  already  know  the  formula to  calculate  the  main  vector. This  is  easy  all  the  vectors  are  mission. They  divide  by  number  of  sample. I  can  get  a  vector.  This  is  a  main  vector. A  C  matrix  probably  already know  the  formula  to  calculate  c  matrix. I  think  these  results are  the  straightforward. But  here  actually,  I  want  to  introduce a  method  that  is commonly  used  in  for  permit  estimation. That  is  a  maximum  likelihood  parameter  es, maximum  likelihood  parameter  estimation. This  necessary, we  will  introduce  this  method. The  maximum  likelihood  parameter  estimation. Actually  from  here,  we  want  to  see how  a  know  the  results. Maybe  you  already  know  the mean  calculation  correct  matric. How  this  is  at from  Miu  likelihood  parameter  estimation. Here,  we  also  define  a  concept. We  assume  that  we  have  classes each  class,  a  sample. D  one  means  sample  in  class one,  is  a  data  set. No  whole  data  set,  for  example, in  a  very  big  data  set, put  all  the  sample  in  class  one  together. This  is  just  D  one.  Da  set  d  one. Then  all  the  Samin  class  two  put  together data  set  D  two,  and  then  a  DC. When  we  calculate  when  we  find the  dense  function  for  each  class. We  assume  that  sample  right in  each  class  is  independent. The  same  in  class y  are  independent  of  same  in  other  classes. For  each  class,  for  each  class, we  should  be  able  we  should estimate  the  mean  vector and  the  current  matrix. Then  we  can  obtain the  density  function  for  each  class. Actually,  the  problem  for  class  one, we  use  the  data  s  d  one. All  the  Sample  d  one  all belong  to  class  one,  Omega  one, A  Sam  d  two  belong  to  Omega  class  Omega  two. With  the  d1d2  of the  sample  from  the  same  class. At  the  problem  mat, no  we  can  just  econology,  theta, the  econology,  class  one  class. The  problem  is  this,  given example,  given  data  set. We  de  data  set  as  d. This  D  could  be  the  sample  from  class  one, from  class  two,  cla  three, from  one  single  class. Our  objective  is  to determine  the  prime  theta. Here,  Theta  include  the  me  a  current  matrix. This  is  just  for  this  application. A  maximum  likelihood  prime eimation  is  a  very  general  method, not  just  use  for  the  g  d  function, primiation,  general. This  data  means  all  the  unknown  parameters, all  of  the  function. Here,  w  one  to  three give  a  set  of  data  set  D, draw  independently  from  the to  estimate  the  unknown  prime  data. Here  means  consist  of  and  C. Here  now  we  assume the  dataset  D.  D  Data  set  d  is  a  general  D, could  be  the  sample  from  class  one. This  could  just  a  D  one, D  D  could  be  d  two, D  D  could  be  d  three,  could  be  DC. Anyway,  D  is  just  a  subset,  is  a  data  set. All  the  sample  from  the  same  class  in  Da  set. The  samples  X  one,  X  and  x. Totally,  we  have  samples  in  the  det  D. Now  we  have  the  set. Now  we  want  to  what  is the  probability  we  have  this  set  data  set? This  should  be  equal  to  the  probability of  h  sample  x  one, times  the  probability  of  having  sample  x  two. Then  times  the  probability  of  X  three, term  probability  and  your  x. The  probability  of  data  set  given the  theta  is  equal  to the  probability  multiplication  of probability  x  k  given  theta. Here  we  want  to  find.  What  is the  probability  of  a  data  set? The  data  here  and  we  assume  they are  drawing  independently  independently. What  is  the  probability  the s  then  the  probability  equal to  the  probability  of  obtain  x  one, Ts  the  probability  of  obtaining  x  two, T  the  probability  of  X  three. Then  we  have  the  k  from  one  to  n.  This means  multiplication, no  submission  multiplication. This  is  the  probability.  This  is a  probability  called  the  likelihood  of  Theta. The  likelihood. Now  we  call  our  maximum likelihood  primmation. This  is  called  the  likelihood  of Theta  with  risk  to  the  set  of sample  D.  Now  we another  concept  right  here, likelihood  the  likelihood. Likelihood  here  attribute  is the  probability,  the  probability. We  are  going  to  use a  maximum  likelihood  parameter  estimation. That  means  that,  why  the  concept, why  we  have  this  set  of  data. Rather  than  another  set  of  data. I  randomly  sel  some  students  in this  class,  this  student. Why  eel  this  set  of  students? Because  I  cho  this  set  of  students, I  have  this  because  I have  the  maximum  probability. Why  we  have  the  data  set  in  the  D.  This  is because  this  is  probably the  P  D  theta  is  the  maximum  is  a  maximum, then  we  help  and  draw  the  samples. Actually  this  probability  PD  theta, theta  like  previous  example, me  include  the  M,  the  Sigma. If  you  take  different  values  of me  and  the  current  matter  is  C, then  this  probably  would  be  different. There  is  a  certain  set  of  value  for  me  and  C, that  this  probability  the  maximum. Here,  we  just  want  to  find  these  values  of  me and  C.  And  so  that  the  P  theta, the  likelihood  of  theta with  re  set  is  maximized. This  is  the  basic  idea  of the  maximum  likelihood  prime  estimation. We  want  to  find  the  value  of  this  parameter, so  that  the  likelihood  is  maximized. Maxima  because  we  have  this  set. Because  we  have  the  maximum  probability, then  you  have  this  set. This  is  the  basic  idea  of the  maximum  likelihood  prime  estimation. We  want  to  find  the  values  of  theta. Theta  here  include  the  M  c  matric. And  so  that  this  likelihood is  maximize  maximize. These  are  parameter  estimation, and  if  we  look  at  this  equation, P  d  theta  the  multiplication, is  a  multiplication. Then  multiplication  normally  no  is  more complex  than  summation  or  subtraction. Here  if  we  define  or take  the  localithm  of  this p.  Then  if  we  take  the  logarithm, we  define  the  likelihood function  the  localithm. Be  we  assume  the  function is  the  causan  function,  we  have  exponential. Here,  if  we  take  the  natural  logarithm, then the  natural  logarithm  and  the  exponential, the  two  operation  could  be  canceled. Here  we  assume  the  local  rhythm  operation is  a  natural  logarithm. Is  a  natural  logalithm. Be  the  local  rhythm  operation is  a  monotonic  operation. The  theta  that  maximize this  no  logarithm  of  the  likelihood. Also  maximize  the  likelihood  PD  theta. Our  next  objective  is  to find  the  values  of  Theta. As  that  these  L  theta. Theatural  logarithm  of the  likelihood  is  maximized. Net,  we  will  try  to find  these  values  of  Mu  and  Sigma. Current  metric  C.  As that  the  L  theta  is  maximized. This  is  likelihood  parameter  estimation. Okay.  So  I  think  that  maybe  you  have  a  break. So  a  break.  Yeah. Time  is  brief. Okay.  So  next  we  look  at  the  minim  or maximization  of the  logarithm  of  the  livelihood. We  want  to  obtain  this  data  value that  maximize  this  data. A  for  ization  problem, I  think  even  in  the  gate  year  one, when  we  start  the  calculus, we  also  lend  some  knowledge  of  finding the  solution  to  solve the  no  maximization  problem. At  we  know  the  necessary  condition  for the  maximum  line  hood  estimate  for data  is  given  as  the  durt  of the  of  the  function  with respect  to  the  parameter. This  should  be  zero. This  are  necessary  condition. So,  what  this  specific example  and  this  p is  just  exponential  function, exponential  function. In  the  first  case,  we  consider  only  the, the  mean  vector  is  unknown. The  current  matrix  is  known. We  assume  we  know  this.  This  one. We  assume  only  mean  vector  is  unknown, the  current  matrix  is  known.  Okay. Then  we  can  write  all  this a  the  dens  function, normal  or  the  gan  dens  function. The  Px.  This  is  just  the  P. Previously  loss  function,  durch  of  P  time. This  is  just  the  Px. Now  we  perform  logarithm, logarithm,  natural  logithm  on  this  P. Then  because  of  theta  here only  because  C  that  in. Then  this  is  the  localitm, natural  logarithm,  Px. In  this  function,  we just  look  at  the  first  part  here. The  first  part  here  is  this  natural  logm, two  p,  two  P  is  a  real  number  D, power  d  dt,  then  the  determine  of C.  This  ate  part  is a  constant  because  we  assume  the  c  is  knowin. Is  not  a  function  of  me. Then  if  we  look at  the  durt  of  this  durt  of  the  loin, the  deity  of  this  part  with  rest  to  the  mele. Then  this  part  is  atrial  is  a  constant. The  deity  with  respect  to  le  tries  zero. Because  this  part  is  not  a  function  of the  known  value  of  the  meter  me. We  only  need  to  look  at  the  detive  of this  part  with  22  to  the  me. This  we  divide  the  two  part. This  face,  we  look  at the  det  of  the  first  part, then  we  assume  you know  how  to  find  the  det  of  this  function, with  to  me  the  dura  for  this. C  minus  t  half  is  cancelled, is  c  in  s  times  x  minus  mi. This  should  be  the  summation here  should  be  zero. Would  be  zero. This  condition.  Necessary  condition. This  would  be  zero.  If  we multiply  the  C  in  worse, the  C  in  worse  at  could  be extracted  out  of  the  submission  pressure. Then  we  multiply  the  C in  the  two  side  of  the  equation, then  C  and  C  in worse  multipl  will  become  identity  matrix. We  can  easily  obtain  this  the  mean  vector. Summation  of  x  divided by  the  to  number  of  samples. I  think  we  already  know  this  result. But  here  we  start from the  maximum  likelihood  parameter  estimation, and  then  finally,  we  obtain  this  result. This  is the  maximum  likelihood  parameter  estimation, is  the  maximum  likelihood  estimation of  the  mean  we  me. This  is  very straightforward  for  the  calculation. But  here  we  lend  the  methods, how  is  it  derived. The  scenario  where only  the  mi  actor  is  unknown, actually  the  C  is  known. The  next  scenario,  bota  unknown. Omit  the  division  process, actually  we  have  fly  the  and  also  the C.  After  we  find the  estimate  of  the  mean  vector, then  we  substitute  the  x  sub  the  mean  vector, then  times  x  minus  the  mean  vector  transpose. The  x  here  is  a  column  vector. Multi  then  is  the  vector. Cor  mi  a  ro  vector, so  this  is  a  matrix,  see  the  matrix. This  is  just  the  estimate  of  the  matrix. But  this  estimate  of the  mean  ag  and  cro  matrix  is the  maximum  likelihood  estimate of  these  two  parameters, mean  ag  acro  matrix. Give  me  a  samples. For  each  class,  I think  we  can  put  the  sample in  the  same  class  together. Then  we  can  easily  get  the  me, submission  of  sample  in  the  same  class, divided  a  total  number  of  sample  in this  class.  We  can  get  me. For  each  class,  we  can  do  this  operation. For  class  one,  we  can  find  Mu  one, class  two,  can  find  Mu  two. Class  C,  we  can  find  M. Similarly, with  the  formula  in  the  train  sample, we  need  the  same  class  class  one  to obtain  the  cent  matric  of  class  one, with  all  the  sample  class  two  to find  the  cmatri  of  class  two  C  two. Once  these  values  are  estimated, then  we  can  obtain the  class  conditional  density  function. Because  these  are  the  only  two  parameters in  a  multi  varied  can  function. Once  these  two  parameters  are  determined, then  these  equal  functions or  the  normal  functions  are  determined. That  is  the  class  condal  density  function. If  we  have the  class  conditional  density  function and  also  we  have  the  probabilities. Then  we  can  easily find  the  pus  probability  or the  god  probability  for any  sample  with  a  repetition of  facial  vector  x. Right? If  we  calculate  know  the  pier  probability or  john  probability  for  each  class, then  we  compare,  then  we  obtain, we  identify  the  maximum  value, then  the  sample  will  be simply  assigned  to  that  class  with maximum  posi  probability  or john  probabilities  or  the  low of  the  john  probabilities. Once  this  is  obtained,  I think  the  classification, and  based  on  this  probability  and the  class  density  function, at  the  straightforward. N,  maybe  I  show  you  one  example. This  example  are  generated  200  samples. Each  class  has  100  samples. 100  for  class  one, which  is  the  red  samples, blue  sample  class  two  also  100  100. Then  from  this  training  data, now  we  can  easily  see  the  percentage  of class  one  samples  is  50%. B  half,  total  100  class  one, total  is  200,  50%,  one  half. Then  sample  of  class  two  also one  half.  Or  50%. In  other  words,  the  probability for  class  one  is  0.5. The  probability  of  class  two, P  O  M  two  is  also  0.5. We  can  easily  estimate the  probability  from  the  train  samples. The  re  issue  just  count  how  many, and  then  we  get  the  percentage of  sample  in  each  class. That's  the  probabilities. Then  of  this,  we  also  need  to estimate  the  dense  function. Because  here  we  achieve  the follow  normal  density  function, we  use  normal  dense  function, then  we  just  need  to  estimate the  two  parameters  of  a  quotient  function. That  is  the  mean  at  M  and  the  chronometric  s. Actually,  we  just  use  the  formula  to calculate  the  mean  vect  and also  the  chronometris, and  use  the  training  samples. I  do  this  calculation  and  find  these  values. Mu  one,  class  one,  M  two  class  two. This  y  here  is  100. Class,  we  have  100  samples. M  two,  we  have  100  hundred  samples, class  two,  n21  hundred. These  are  the  mean  wag  for class  one  and  class  two. Based  on  this  mean  estimate, we  can  also  calculate the  next  step  is  the  Qimtric  estimate. C  one,  C  two, the  estimate  of  the  metric. This  is  the  maximum  likelihood  estimate. Of  the  mean  c  and  cent  matrix. We  get  these  values  from  the  traino  samples. Then  based  on  this,  two  parameters. Then  we  can  construct the  density  function  for  each  class. This  is  the  density  function  for  class. Class  canal  density  function. P  x  given  m  one,  m  x  y. This  is  based  on  the  formula  1/2  p, d  divided  by  two,  D  here  is  equal  to  two. B  in  the  am  is  two  dimensional, we  have  x  x  two. This  is  the  Also  the  C, C  one  is  no  in  here,  here. Then  you  get  the  determinate, then  you  get  a  square  root. So  we  can  get  speci  value. These  are  actually  just  a  value  here. Yeah. This  is  the  square  roles of  the  C,  the  determinant  of  the  C, so  we  get  it  and  then  we  subsite  M  one, so  the  C  one  into then  this  is  the  dens  function  for  class. Similarly,  we  can  get  a des  function  for  class  two. For  any  given  x,  te  sample,  we  have  a  value. We  can  substitute,  then  we  can  get a  value  because  all  these  are  the  value. We  subside  x  into  the  des  functions. Then  we  can  get  a  value. We  go  to  get  density  value. Then  we  use  this  des  value  to  calculate the  joint  probabilities together  with  the  probability. Now  for  this  problem. We  have  this  dal  function. G  x,  we  use the  joint  probability  as  a  desal  function, then  the  g  x,  the  function  for class  one  is  just  the  joint  probability of  Om  one  and  x. We  have  ten  d. One  half,  the  probability times  the  class  conditional dense  function  for  class  one. We  obtain  the  previous  liide, and  then  g2x  this. Then  for  any  sample  we  substitute  into  the  G, we  substitute  into  g2x, we  get  specific  values. Then  we  compare  the  values. If  the  g1x  is  greater  than  g2x, then  the  sample  is  assigned  to  class  one. If  the  G  two  is  greater, then  we  assign  the  sample  to  class  two, if  the  two  values  the  same. 50  50%.  Then  the  class  is  undetermined. Actually,  this  sample  is on  the  decision  boundary. Let's  actually  slide  we will  look  at  the  decision  boundaries. Actually, this  sample  is  on  the  decision  boundary. Now  we  cannot  decide  which  class. This  is,  I  think  the  example,  this  example, in  the  whole  space  in the  range  from  X  one  from  minus  four  to  six, X  two  from  minus  four  to  six I  generate  over  10,000. I  think  remember  20,000 or  10,000  data  points. For  each  of  the  data  point, is  a  two  do  vector. A  subsite  this  x  into  G  x  into  G  Ag  two  x, and  then  compare  the  values. Then  assign  the  sample to  the  corresponding  class  that  has the  maximum  or  greater  the  on  probabilities. Finally,  all  the  samples  right  in the  green  region  is  assigned to  assigned  to  class  one. All  sample  in  the  yellow  region are  signed  ago  two  class  two. You  can  also  observe  there  is a  boundary between  the  yellow  and  green  region. This  is  called  a  decision  boundary. Decision  boundary. Any  point  on  the  decision  boundary  has a  the  g  one  and  g2x  the  same  value. The  decimal  function,  g  x  at  the same  for  any  point  on  the  decision  boundary. T  from  this  result, we  can  find  that  tree. The  decision  boundary  here  is  a  curve. This  curve  of  course  is  very  smooth. It's  not  atrial  ate. It's  a  curve  curve  is  non  linear. In  other  words,  so he  decision  classifier  is a  non  linear  classifier. Because  the  descent  boundary  is  a  curve. Of  course,  actually  we not  the  dental  function at  contain  actually  the  exponential  function. Exponal  function  is  a  non  linear  function. Of  course,  this  are  non  linear  classify. Then  we  can  see  at the  deinal  boundary,  at  a  curve. Curve  is  non  linear. This  is  the  very  simple  example through  which  actually  I illustrate  the  steps  to obtain  the  mean  vectors, to  obtain  the  probabilities, and  then  to  construct  the  dense  functions, and  then  to  obtain  the  desial  functions. Therefore,  every  tasing  sample, we  substitute  to  the  dimal  functions. We  compare  the  values, and  then  we  assign  the  class  label. This  is  the  process. This  is  a  very  simple  example, but  illustrate  the  principle, you  the  process.Ni  we will  talk  about  another  thing  that  is called  Gau  mist  model. Gaut.  What  is  the  gauche  model? Here  we  have  a  look  of  the  example. For  class  one,  here we  have  data  from  two  classes. The  red  sample  class  one,  100  samples. Then  we  also  have blue  samples  from  class  two. Atria  from  the  data  attribution, we  can  see  Atria  previously, I  illustrate  a  normal  data  attribution is  two  d  spas. A  around  the  s  v, the  vector,  a  lot  of  samples. Then  the  further  away  from  then we  have  a  fewer  sample. At,  if  you  look at  the  distribution  of  the  sample  class  two, we  can  find  that  the  samples  are not  from  one  single  normal  function. At  the  samples  are  from  two  normal  functions. Is  a  scenario,  I  want  to construct  the  density  function  for  class  two, one  des  function, one  normal  function  is  not  sufficient. Here  we  should  use  two. This  is  just  one  example. Maybe  we  can  use  more. We  need  to  use  more. Three,  four,  five. This  depends  on  the  application, depends  on  the  data  distribution. For  such  a  scenarios, how  to  represent  the  distribution. Actually,  we  can  use at  multiple  normal  functions to  construct the  density  function  for  class  two. That  is  the  so  called  Gaussian  mixture  model. In  the  gent  Mr.  Model, the  class  conditional  density  function consists  of  multiple  gent  functions. C  i,  the  ca  function  one  equals  one  from. This  dens  fun  is  of  n  of  gauent  functions. Each  co  function  has  a  corresponding weightage  i.  FI  is a  tage  for  a  dese  function. This  des  function  is  a  linear  combination, a  weighted  submission  of a  multic  normal  functions. Each  normal  function  has its  own  mean  vector  and  matrix. Is  a  M  CI. M  I  C  here,  the here  is  all  that  somewhat  belong to  the  same  class  class  two, but  we  have  multiple  gaucan  functions. Then  we  have  multiple  mean  vector and  mean  matrix. This  is  the  g is  called  the  gaucan  mist  model. This  model  contains multiple  gaucan  functions, and  the  class  function  actually  is wet  summation  of the  multiple  gaucan  functions. This  is  a  tag  and  at  the  condition  for  the  R. R  one  plus  R  two  and  M  should  be  one. The  summation  of  the  tage  should  be  one. This  is  the  Gaca  mite  model. If  we  want  to  use  a  gui  gai  mist  model to  construct  the class  continuo  density  function. We  have  at  least  this  p  M  one, C  one,  m2c2  and  MMC. For  each  des  fun  fun to  estimate  the  me  and  current  mates, and  also  in  to  estimate the  age  A  one  Alpha  20  Alpha. To. If  we  know  the  values for  the  gan  function  and also  the  weightage  for each  of  the  gent  function, then  we  can  easily  at the  class  it  identity  function. It  is  just  summation of  the  magical  gaussian  functions. I  think  the  next  part,  I  think our  core  issue  here is  how  to  obtain  the  value  of, M  CI  from  the  training  data. This  is  the  key  issue.  Net,  we  will solve  the  estimation  problem for  the  three  total  parameters. The  weightage,  the  main  vectors, and  also  the  chronometric. For  each  class,  we  have these  three  parameters. Next  we  talk  about  primary  imation  for  GMM, and  we  still  need  to  use the  so  called  a  maximum likelihood  primary  estimation  method. Again,  we  define  this  likelihood  PD  theta, and  again,  we  take the  natural  localim  operation. We  submission  from  one  to  n, then  this  part  of  the  s  then. For  dense  function, we  have  a  submission  from  multiples. P  S  given  the  CI. We  want  to  find  the  R  of  MU ICI  so  that  the  L  theta  is  maximized. The  lucky  hood  is  maximized. Why  we  need  to  aim. This  is  because  we  have  the  data set  because  this  theta  set has  the  maximum  probability. We  want  to  find  theta and  now  the  theta  include  the  a  value, the  C  value,  and  also  the  value, so  that  the  Cata  isn't  minimized. I  maximize. I  actually  know  later  we can  see  the  challenges  here in  this  primary  estimation. Here  we  define  a  uno  variable, which  is  G  K. The  GK  is  basically  the  probability of  O  i  given  x k.  This  is  a  probability  of  given  x. This  is  the  probability  of  OI. OI  means  the  Here we  have  a  multiple  ga  function. For  the  same  class,  but  we have  multiple  guion  component. We  due  each  of  the  g  component  like  OI. So  Gk  is  probably S  K  belonging  to  gaussian  component  OI. Okay. The  probability  we  define  this. Then  actually,  we  can have  the  gm,  we  define  the  right. Here  we  also  apply  the  base  the  zero. Probability  of  m  I  give k  equal  to  the  probability  X  give  Oi, then  time  the  probability  of  Oi. Then  divide  this  summation. And  this  P  O,  the  probability of  gaussian  component  OI,  this  is  simply  the. The  weightage  I  t that  weightage  is  just  the  probability  of  OI. The  ga  component. This  is  the  gram I  K  for  the  L  theta for  other  parameters  at, I  will  also  omit  the  division  process. At  the  MI  can  be  found  in  this  formula. At  the  past,  what  is  the  MI? Submission  of  the  samples, ma  Xi,  divided  a  number  of  samples. But  now  is  different. So  Mi  for  MI, we  also  use  all  the  samples. But  the  contribution  of  the  sample  is  no  one. At  the  contribution  of  this  x  k  in the  calculation  of  the  me  vector  is  the g  k.  It  is  the  probability  of this  x  k  belonging  to  this  gotten  component. These  are  very  important  a  concept. If  you  know  pungic,  something  like  that. At  each  sample  has  a  probability belonging  to  a  certain  tent  function. Of  course,  if  this  sample is  not  belonging  to  the  goal  function, then  the  probability  could  be  very  small. But  anyway,  every  sample has  a  probability  belonging to  a  certain  trial  causan  function. You  want  to  c  the  mean  for a  cat  function  for  one  qual  function. We  use  all  the  samples. But  the  contribution  of each  of  the  sample,  I  read  different. Add  the  contribution  just  like  a  weighted, is  a  gm  is  a  probability  of the  sambo  K  belonging  to  the  gan  component. The  see  Garmak. Previously,  arma  is  just  one. We  use  all  the  sample  equally. They  divide  number  of  sample. None  no,  because  each  of  sample, they  have  a  certain  different probability  belonging  to a  certain  t  function. That  is  the  ga,  this  probability. Then  divided  by  them. This  is  the  mean  value  calculation. In  order  to  calculate  the  mean  value  of  MI, we  need  to  have  the  gama  K  values. If  we  know  gama  values, we  can  easily  calculate  the  S  K. The  M. Mi,  and  similarly,  for the  current  matrix,  here  is  no. Actually  the  change  to  C.  Ci. The  CI  previously  one  calculator is  the  x  minus  the  mean  vector, then  at  times  x minus  the  mean  vector  transpose. This  previously  we  use  it, but  now  it  is  different. We  need  to  actu  times  a  tag  k, which  is  the  probability  of this  k  belonging  to  this  ga  component. Then  again, divided  by  the  submission  of  the  g. From  here,  we  as  long  as  we  know  the  gum, we  can  calculate  the  M,  and then  we  can  also  c  the  Ci. Also  if  we  know  the  gum,  we  can  c. Then  the  issue  becomes  this. GK  is  very  important  here. If  we  know  gama  IK,  we  can  the  mean  vector, we  can  c  the  correct  matrix, we  can  also  c  the  vitae. But  now  we  go  back  to  look  at  the  gums. If  we  want  the  ga  calculation  here, we  need  the  i. Gama  calculation  need. Calculation  needs  gama  K,  K. Which  one  do  we  need  to  determine  first? Chicken  egg  problem,  something like  that,  Chicken  egg  problem. In  order  to  address  this  problem,  in  this, we  use  the  so  called we  don't  have  a  close  form. T  to estimate  the  parameter  in  such  a  scenario, we  can  use  a  so  called expectation  machimization  algorithm. This  also  frequently  use org  in  primization  in  machine. Today  we  study  two.  One  is the  maximum  likelihood  primization. Another  is  the  maximum  likelihood, the  expectation  maimiz  primitimation. In  this  pm  expectation  maximization  method is  e  treaty  method. We  first  assume  a  value,  for  example, the  the  and  also  the  C, then  we  calculate  the  gase. Then  based  on  the  g  we  update, the  M,  and  the  CI. Then  based  on  the  MCI  and  I, we  update  the  gs.  Is  the  e  treat. This  is  calculation  I repeated  and  with  the  value  of  stabilized. This  is  the  expedation  maimization  method. We  first  assume  some  of  the  values. Then,  we  calculate  another  value. This  is  the  expectation  machimization. In  the  expedition  maimization, we  have  two  steps. The  first  step  is  called  estimation. Estimation  step,  the  asi  step we  estimate  g  k. Based  on  the  value  of  MCI, I  M  are unknown,  of  course,  they  are  not  known. Then  normally  in  the  starting in  the  first  step, we  assume  some  run  values  to  them. Based  on  run  assign  values of  MCI  to  calculate K.  This  estimation  step  to  e  at  the  ga. The  probability  of  sample  K belonging  to  the  gas  component  or  OI. Then  the  next  step  is  the  maximization  step. Mimization,  again,  a  here  is  to  calculate, CI  using  the  maximalihod  method. Here  we  need  to  use  the  value  of  a  gama. This  is  the  two  steps  in the  expectation  maximization  method for  paritzation. Next  we  look  at  the  algorithm. So  the  first  step  in  the  internalization. The  initialization  is  for the  three  parameters  i, i  and  the  CI. We  will  give  the  values  i  zero. This  zero  means  the  initial step  initial  step. Because  that  expedition  maximization is  it  method. Step  one,  step  two, step  three  until  iteration one  iteration  number  two,  and  three. It  method. This  zero  means  step  or  iteration. Zero  means  the  initial  values. And  we  don't  know  the  values,  of  course, we  don't  know  otherwise, we  don't  need  to  estimate. We  don't  know  the  values. At  the  beginning,  we assign  random  value  to  them. We  generate  random  values  and  assign  them  to the  I  and  MI  and  also  the  CI. We  label  them  as  zero,  in  the  zero  step. Then  we  started  the  step  one. Step  it  at  number. The  first  step  is  the  estimation. Based  on  the  values  here, zero,  M  zero,  CI  zero, we  estimate  the  g  I  K, K  O  i,  the  C  I  K  at  step  one. Here  e  j  plus  because  the initial  initization,  j  equals  zero. Here  j  plus  j  plus  one, j  equal  plus,  that  means  step  one  now, then  we  estimate  arma, based  on  this  formula. Once  this  gm  is, then  we  calculate  the mean  wag  and  chromatris. Here  we  need  to  use  the  arma  k  value. For  the  mean  wag  calculation for  the  chromatri  calculation, and  also  for  the  r  of  value  calculations. This  is  the  step  one. The  first  step  estimate  g  one. Then  we  update  the  values of  the  M  current  matrix  and  also  the  F. F  one,  step  one, or  the  M  one,  also  the  CI. Then  we  return  to  step  two. Based  on  the  new  FI,  MI  and  CI, we  estimate  a  new  gam K.  That's  the  next  step, k  here,  the  j  equal  to  two. The  second  step.  Again,  we  start from  the  estimation  of  the  GK, and  then  again  next  step  we  click  with the  mean  vector  chrometric  and  R  values. Then  we'll  repeat  this  again. We  will  repeat  this  and  to certain  stopping  criterion  is  satisfied. This  stopping  criterion  could be  the  values  are  stabilized. If  we  repeat  this  experiment, no  change  in  the  values  of  the  MI  Sigma. Then  we  can  stop.  Or  you can  define  not  tsmate, based  on  my  experience,  we  should maybe  perform  iteration  for  1,000  times. Then  you  just  repeat  the  expert  qu  to  1,000. Then  you  can  stop. These  are  the  sub  criteria. But  anyway,  after  utile  iterations, no  we  can  get  stabilized  estimate  of the  main  vectors  mtrix for  each  of  the  cient  component, and  also  the  corresponding  weightage  of  i. Then  based  on  these  three  parameters, we  can  construct  the basic  function  for  this  class, which  is  a  linear  combination  of the  multiple  gan  functions. Which  is  submission  of the  multiple  caution  functions. This  is  a  ga  mission  model. You  remember  this  model  is  for  one  class, for  this  class,  the same  class  for  the  one  class, are  not  two  classes,  just  one  class  here. But  this  one  class  sample  we  are from  more  than  one  distribution  function. This  is  the  gaucho  emission  model. This  is  just  for  class  two  in  this  example. If  class  one  also have  multiple  gaussian  component, then  we  should  also  use  gai  mission  model, to  construct  the  density function  for  class  one. But  this  example  is  just  one  gas  function. Then  we  just  use  one  ga  function to  the  density  function  for  class  one. This  depends  on  the  problem. Here  we  see  the  data  from  multiple  component. Actually  we  can  generalize at  it  has  been  approved. Normally  the  miss  model, no  approximate any  arbitrary  density  functions. Here  we  don't  see the  pmt  component  or  whatever. Just  arbitrary  dense  functions can  be  approximated multiple  des  fun  component  to  approximate. But  how  many  guion  component  we should  use  in  practice,  we  don't  know. This,  the  number  of gon  component  in  the  design  function, M,  is  a  hyperparameter. In  the  example  of  these  are  two  D, and  we  consider  the  ion, then  we  can  identify how  many  components  gad  component, then  we  can  determine  the  value  two. But  in  practice, the  data  is  a  high  dimensional. You  really  don't  know how  many  gaudal  components are  there  or  D. This  value  need  to be  determined  by  trial  and  error. You  will  try  multiple  values  of. This  is  a  higher  parameter. This  is  the  gai  emission  model and  it  is  used  for any  general  kind  of  arbitary  distribution. No  necessary  to  gai  disution. This  example,  I  see  this  example. At  the  beginning,  maybe  just repeat  the  process  and  we  just random  for  the  for  the  mean  vectors. Then  Mu  one,  Mu  22  means  for  class  two, two,  one  means  for  guten  capon  number  one. The  Mu  22,  this  means  also  class  two because  we  know  class two  contain  two  gadan  coupon. The  two,  the  first  two  means  class  two, the  second  two  means the  second  gaden  caponent. These  are  the  initial  values which  are  generated  randomly. We  generate  random  vectors, then  assign  them  to  the  mean  to the  two  mean  vectors  for the  two  gation  capon. Similarly,  we  also  generate random  values  at  random  matri, two  by  two  matris. Then  assign  them. C21,  cross  two, C  matris  for  component  number  one. This  also  the  comp  number  two  cent  matrix. Also  random  will  generate  the  ph  values. But  the  w  two  the  two  Apha  value  submission should  be  one. We  assum  ger  random  value  for  one. 0.4.  A  two  is  0.6. These  are  the  random  values. Based  on  the  random  v  initial  values, we  s  we  calculate  gK, step  one,  or  we  start  step  one. This  is just  the  initial  state  right  intrazation. After  the  traization,  we should  start  the  iterations. We  start  from  the  eation  number  one. Ether  iteration  number  one, the  first  step  is  estimation  to  estimate  g. Based  on  these  values,  no  cul  gas Then  we  calculate  the  new  C  and  the  new  pa. After  repeat  this  for  1,000  times, then  we  get  semar  values. These  are  the  estimate of  the  main  vectors  for the  two  gut  capon  and also  the  chronometric  for the  two  gut  coupons. And  also  the  corresponding  weighted  values. On  alpha  value  is  0.49  52, close  to  50%  0.5. Another  is  also  close  to  0.5. The  contribution  or  the  weightage  for the  two  gas  component  are  similar,  0.5. Based  on  these  main  vector  c  matric and  also  the  alpha  values, then  we  can  construct  the  density  function, the  density  function  for  class  two. These  are  density  function.  You  just subs  value  C  one, and  then  you  get  that. This  is  for  class  one,  four  class  one, only  one  g  component, and  we  know  the  mean  actor  cent  matric, we  can  can  them  easily. Then  we  also  have the  des  function  for  class  one. These  are  the  main estimated  for  the  two  classes. Here.  Indeed  that  is  in  the  central. This  is  for  the  mean  weight  for  class  one. Then  the  p  probability. Pro  probability  for  class  one, totally  here,  we  have  300  samples. Class  one  has  100  samples. Class  two  have  200  samples. The  p  probability  for  Omega  one  is one  probability  for  class  two  is  to  the. Then  we  combine  this  probability and  also  the  density  function. Then  we  obtain  at  the  john  probabilities. We  john  probability  at  additional  function. For  any  sample,  training, training  or  testing,  any  sample, actually,  we  can  substitute  the  x. Into  x  into  g2x, then  we  compare  which  value  greater. Then  we  assign  the  sample  to  that  class. So  in  the  experiment,  again,  in  the  range, whole  range  are  generated  like 10,000  20,000  data  points, and  then  a  sub  into  the  x2x, then  I  compare  the  values of  the  two  digital  functions, and  then  assign  the  sample  to the  class  with  the  greater, the  dial  function  value. And  then  this  is  the  classification  result. Any  point  in  the  green  region, will  be  assent  to  class  one. Any  point  class  two  will  be  as in  the  yellow  region  will be  assent  to  class  two. This  class  one  region class  two  region,  green  and  yellow. Here  you  can  also  that the  boundary  between the  yellow  and  green  region, there  is  a  boundary. There  is  a  line  there.  This  is the  decision  boundary  of  the  two  classes. Again  here  is  a  curve  is  a  curve. These  are  non  linear  classified. This  is  the  this  example, we  use  the  two  component in  the  dense  function  for  class  two. And  we  observe  a  four  misclassification for  the  training  samples. This  is  a  scenario  where  we  use two  function  for  class  two. If  we  achieve  one  single  guion  fun  component is  used  for  class  one,  for  class  two. We  don't  know  there  are  two  g  function. We  just  use  one. Then  actually  no  more  the  dital  boundaries. Like  this. We  observe  more  tra  one  more  area. The  training  area  here  is a  15  misclassificent for  the  training  samples. This  is  a  scenario  where  the  two  numbers  two, but  we  only  use  one.  Okay. And  then  we  consider another  scenario  and  in  this  scenario, because  we  don't  know  how many  gaussian  capon  we  should use  to construct  the  density  function  of  class  two. We  don't  know. We  assume  that  three,  then  we  use  three. Now  we  repeat  the  process. Actually  this  square  actually  denotes the  position  of  the  three  mean  vectors for the  three  gaussian  component  for  class  two. Also  we  obtain  the  values for  the  three  Gatan  components. One  is  0.05  20.05. Other  value  is  0.5, another  is  the  0.44. Other  values  are  almost  ten  times of  the  first  a  value. In  other  words,  one  of  the  component, the  cap  number  one  here, actually  have  a  very  small  weightage,  0.05, then  other  cation  component has  a  greater  actin  weightage. This  means  that  maybe the  first  cation  component  is  no  important. Maybe  we  don't  need  to use  this  cation  component. Maybe  we  just  need  to  use  two. Actually,  the  alpha  values  actually  give  us an  indication  and  based  on  which  ate, we  can  actually  roughly  identify how  many  cation  component  we  use. If  some  of  the  we just  analyze  the  value  of  r. If  R  value  is  small, maybe  that  means  disc  coupon  not  important, then  maybe  we  don't  need  to use  actually  diction  component. We  can  reduce  the  number of  the  action  component. In  real  scenario,  the data  is  high  dimensional. We  cannot  see  the  data  attribution. We  don't  know  how  many  comp  we  should  use, but  we  can  always  assume  a  number and  then  a  we  do  this, we  contract  the  dense  function  based  on the  expedited  maximization  and also  the  maxim  likehd  primar  eimation, we  obtain  the  Alpha  values. Then  we  alz  alpha  values. We  need  to  try  a  few  times  before  we  can find  a  v  value  and  for  the  m, the  number  of  for  tion  component. This  is  the  model, and  if  we  use  more  than  necessary, then  the  alpha  values we  have  a  very  small  alpha  values. This  is  another  scenario  for  class  two, and  the  t  number  should  be  two. Just  now  we  try  three.  Less  we  try  five. We  assume  there  are  five  gaussian components  for  class  two. Then  these  are  the  positions, the  five  red  squares  in  the  figure, the  position  of  the  five  gasian  component, Atu  can  see  some  of  the  gausan  component, just  located  in  the  in  one corner  in  one  corner. The  just  c  few  samples. If  we  look  at  f  values. Among  the  five  Alpha  values, two  a  values  are  relatively  large. Like  a  0.46  and  0.42,  relatively  large. Then  three  alpha  values  are  relative small,  0.03,  0.050  0.02. They  are  small,  that  mean these  gap  are  not  important. No  important, maybe  we  don't  need  to  use  them. From  analyzing  the  values  of  the  Alpha. We  can  also  roughly  identify how  many  gasien  coupon  we  should use  in  the  gia  mission  model. Although  we  don't  know,  we cannot  see  the  distribution. You  can  analyze  the  Alpha  values. Alpha  value  is  small, that  means  this  gas  coupon  not  important. Then  we  can  eliminate.  Okay. So  this  is,  I  think  the  setting  for  the  m, the  number  of  cation  component  which  we use  Then  we  can look  at  based  on  the  five  tent  component, and  then  we  construct  class Cinal  density  for  class  two. Then  for  class  one,  again, we  just  use  one  component, then  we  finally  find  the  decimal  functions, and  then  for  every tasing  sample  in  the  range, we  into  the  dieral  function  and we  find  the  values  we  compare  and  we assign  to  the  corresponding  class. This  is  the  decision  boundary between  the  two  classes. Green  and  yellow. The  descent  boundary  is  much more  complex  now. Z  z  very  complex. This  means  no  complex this  complexity  descent  boundary  or  classify, normally  can  easily  overfit  at  data. Then  the  generalization  could  be  at  bed. So  we  use  more  than  necessary  ga  components, and  then  we  have  a  higher  chance to  overfee  the  train  data. This  will  in  turn  lead  to the  worse  performance  for  the  testing  data. This  observation. W  excessive  number  of causan  components  excessive. Of  course,  in  this  scenario, two  is  a  true  number  with three  or  five,  not  that  excessive. If  we  don't  know  maybe  with  ten,  20,  Anyway, if  you  use  the  excessive  number of  guion  components, then  the  decision  boundary becomes  more  complex. In  the  previous  case,  a  very  smooth  curve, but  now  the  exact  curve  very  complex. Curve  and  which  may produce better  performance  on  the  training  data. But  the  worse  performance on  the  unseen  testing  data. Most  likely,  so  this  classify will  overfit  the  training  data. This  observation.  If  we use  essive  number  of  tion  component. In  other  words,  if  we use  the  question  Mr.  Model, we  must  try  our  effort to  use  a  suitable  number of  cation  component  rather than  esssive  number  of  cation  component  in the  construction  of the  class  conditional  density  function. This  is  the  first  observation. The  second  observation  about. The  use  of  esssive  number  of tion  components  results  in  some  small  values. We  have  observed  that  in  the  scenario  of five  gan  component  in the  scenario  of  three  gon  component. We  observe  some  A  values  are  small. This  property  may  be  used  to determine  small  number  of  gan  component, so  as  to  alleviate  overfitting  problem. We  analyze  the  Alpha  values, we  identify  how  many  p  values  are  small. How  many  pa  values  are  big  or  large. Small  p  values  means this  g  coupon  no  important. Then  we  can  reduce,  we  can  just  remove. But  remove  of  course  we  need  to estimate  the  under  the  new  number, new  number  of  caution  component, we  need  to  estimate  the  new  R  values and  also  the  me  value  and  the  current  matrix. We  cannot  just  simply  remove  from  this. We  mean  we  reduce  the  number, but  we  need  to  repeat  the  whole  process to  estimate  value, the  MI  and  also  the  CI  values. This  is  the  gaucan  mission  model. I  actually  the  distribution  cannot  be  well actually  modeled  using one  single  gai  function. Then  we  should  use  ga  mist  model. Okay,  maybe I  think  we  have  a  ten  minute  break. After  break  actually  we  talk about  the  nine  base. Next,  we  look  at  the  NIO  base. So  we  look  at  this  formula  again, the  bas  theorem,  we  use the  bass  theorem  to  estimate  the  probability. Probability  of  given  x. Equal  to  the  probability  x  given  omega  g. This  is  the  conditional  density  density, clas  continual  density, and  then  times  the  probability  of  omega, this  is  the  probability  of  omega  g, then  divided  by  the  px. In  practice,  we  often  only  use the  numerical  part  as a  dismal  function  to  perform  classification. A  T  the  numeric  part  is just  the  joint  probability of  the  x  and  omega. For  the  numerical  part, the  joint  probability, P  X  Omega,  multiple  omega g.  This  is  just  the  joint  probability of  x  and  omega. X  is  a  vector  include  x  one, x  two  and  x  d,  the  omega. For  this  joint  probability of  x  two  omega  three, previously,  we  put  x  together, ma  the  two  and  x  and  omega  two  part. Now  we  consider  the  x1x2  and  x from  x  two  and  x  d  x  omega  as  a  condition. This  will  equal  to  the  probability  of  x  one, probability  of  x  one  given this  condition  times the  probability  of  this  condition. Here,  we  just  expand  the  x. But  now  we  combine  x23 together  with  the  mega. This  should  be  equal  probably  x  one,  x  two, then  time  probably  two  um. Therefore  for  this  second  part, we  can  also  the  this  part  for  this  part, this  is  equal  to  the  probably x  two  under  this  condition, they  must  multiply the  probability  of  this  condition. Then  the  next  ache  you  can further  eon  this  part, then  this  should  be  the  probably  X  three  and the  condition  s4s5  and  the  omega. Finally,  we  perform  this expansion  and  we  get  this  result. P  x  one  given  x23  and  mega. T  probability  of  X two  given  the  condition  X  three, t  x  d  omega, and  then  t  the  last  p  X d  omega  times  the  p  omega. This  is  just  know  that  is  pan, there  is  pension  for  the  n  probability. Now  we  apply  some  anal  conditions. We  assume  if  we  assume  that  features, X  one,  two,  xn, these  features  are interdependent  they  are  interdependent, x  two,  they  are  interdependent. We  assume  they  are  interdependent. Then  this  probability  x one  and  this  condition, x  one,  x  d  omega. Be  x  one  and  other  x  x  are  interdependent. This  should  be  equal  to  the  probability of  x  given  omega. The  condition  X  two,  three,  are  removed. Because  the  features  are  interdependent, Similarly  for  P  x  two,  g  x  three, four,  so  this  is  equal  to  p  X,  x2m. We  substitute,  we  substitute. That's  the  joint  probability  x  and  oma  g and  the  condition  that the  features  are  interdependent. Then  we  have  this  condition. Here  the  multiplication. P  x  one,  Omega,  Puma. Here,  we  just  need  to  find the  joint  probability  of  each  of the  feature  with  the  class  omega. Then  multiply  them  together. This  is  the  joint  probability of  the  feature  x vector  x  and  omega  g. If  the  features  are  interdependent, This  prob  is  simplified. If  they  are  not  interdependent, to  estimate  the  conditional probably  density  function. We  need  to  find the  corr  matrix  and  we  need  to find  the  mean  vector. But  now,  if  we assume  they  are  interdependent. We  don't  need  to  cond  correlation. We  just  need  to  look  at for  each  individual  dimension. What  is  the  density  function? The  dens  function  is  a  unit  normal  function. Now  we  no  longer use  multi  variate  normal  functions. We  use  univarate  normal  functions. For  each  of  the  uni  normal  functions, we  only  have  two  values. One  is  the  mean  value, another  is  the  standard  vision of  variance  cm  squared. We  can  easily  estimate  for  each  dimension. We  don't  need  to  consider the  correlation  between  dimensions. This  is  the  result based  on  the  condition,  interdependence. Now  if  we  substitute, then  we  can  find  the  p  zero probability  just  equal  to  this. Then  you  write  the  cart.  We  look at  the  individual  features. We  look  at  we  look  at the  conditional  probability  function for  each  individual  feature. Then  ti  by  them  together. Then  times  the  mag. Divided  by  px.  Here,  the  px again,  is  a  scaler. Is  a  scale  factor. Is  a  common  factor,  we  can  remove. We  can  just  use  the  numerical  part to  that  the  joint  probability. But  the  joint  probability now  is  significantly simplified  based  on  the  condition of  interdependence  between  the  features. This  is  a  so  called  N  base  na  base. There  are  three  types  of  U  base  classified. Based  on  the  type  of  features. I  think  in  the  last  week, we  study  the  different  type  of  features. We  know  some  features  are  continuous, some  features  are  discrete. When  we  think  about  the  gaian  functions  of  t, we  implicitly assume  the  feature  is  continuous. But  if  the  feature  continue  discrete, then  we  should  not  use  the  gaian  functions. We  should  use  other  functions. So  if  the  feature  is  continuous, then  we  can  use  a  gaucan  nu  base. The  feature  is  categorical  or  discrete, and  also  we  have  two possible  values  for  each  of  the  feature, then  we  can  use  the  so  called  b  n  base. Then  if  the  feature  have  multiple  values. I  think  the  multiple  features we  can  use  a  binomial  n  base. Biomal  base  often  used for  test  test  classification, when  the  t  words  in the  test  is  used  to  represent  the  test. That  in  word  for  each  document, for  example,  we  count the  number  of  times  of  each  word. Then  based  on  for  each  time, this  number  as  a  vector. The  first  element  of  the  v is  the  co  of  word  number  one. Then  the  second  element  is the  coe  of  word  number  two. How  many  times  these  words appear  in  this  text. This  is  the  multinmal  n  base. The  three  types  of  nu  base. Then  for  the  gent U  base,  we  already  analyzed. Even  for  more  complex  scenarios, atria  is  the  multi  normal  dense  function, we  already  know  how  to  use. Let  alone  the  not  normal  functions. For  this  gas,  for  continual  variables, these  past  three  forward. For  each  of  the  feature,  then we  estimate  the  mean  value, estimate  the  variate  snd  vision, then  we  can  construct  this. This  is  easy. I  will  actually  pass  this  because we  already  talk  about  more even  more  complicated  scenarios. Now  we  look  at  the  b  n  base. Here  the  feature  is  categorical, and  also  the  feature  we have  two  possible  values. In  other  words,  this  feature  is a  binary  feature  binary  feature. This  feature,  my  x  equal  to  one, no  natural  one,  maybe fe  part  or  something  like  that, male  or  female,  or  good  or  bad. But  anyway,  this  feature have  two  possible  values. Then  the  probability  of  belong  to  one is  r  then  belong  to  another  value  is  r. This  feature  is  binary. Is  categorical,  of  course, but  only  two  possible  values  is  a  binary. For  such  know,  how  to  use  the  nO  base. Nun  base. Here,  I  end  through  the  example  to illustrate  how  the  bul  nu  base  works. Okay.  Here,  we  have  five  t  samples, and  each  rule  is  one  sample, and  each  column  is  a  vector. Read  the  first  three  column are  the  fatal  v  features, and  the  last  column  is  is  a  class  label. F  or  pass  is  a  class  label  and confide  is  a  yes  or  no, two  possible  values,  and  Studied  whether  he spend  effort  on  the  no  is a  yes  or  no  on  bindery  feature. Si  also  bind  fate  yes  or  no. These  are  the  five  training  samples  here. Now,  we  have  one  at  a  technical  sample. We  want  to  perform classification  for  this  training  sample, a  technical  sample,  which had  a  feature  value  like  confident. First  fat  is  yes.  Second  feature  started, yes,  the  feature  six  is  no. We  want  to  we  want  to  perform  classification, and  based  on  these  training  samples. How  to  do  this. Here,  we  also  assume  a  tree confident  know  studied  or  sick. These  three  features  are  interdependent. We  use  ni  base. Ni  base  that  we  just  need  to build  that  estimates  function, the  value  along  each  of  the  features. So  So  the  three  variables, x  y,  x  three.  Multiplication. Now  for  the  same  sum  or  x  y,  es, x2s,  X  three,  six, the  three  features,  and  also  the  values. We  obtained. These  are  the  propabilities. Then  we  to  also  find the  class  conditional  probabilities. Because  in  here  we  can  see  we  need  to  use the  probability  and  also  to  use  this is  the  class  conditional  probability. But  the  class  conal  probability is  obtained  actually  for each  feature  separately  individually. Class  conditional  probability, that  means  we  need  to  find the  probability  x  y  equal  to  given  Omega, or  given  Omega  two. Omega  y  is  f  or  part. We  to  find  this.  Next,  we first  look  at  the  probability,  maybe. For  the  probability  and  we can  go  back  to  the  samples, we  have  five  samples  and  three  samples. Ps.  Class,  three  samples. The  propability  for  class  one  p is  35,  60%  06. And  then  another  class  two, fill  two  samples,  then  is  the  04. Through  the  train  sample, we  can  easily  obtain  the  probability for  the  two  classes. That  is  P  one  equal  to  0.6, P  two  equal  0.4. Next,  we  need  to  look  at the  class  conal  probability, for  f  x  s. For  feature  x  y  equal  to  yes  given  Omega  one. This  is  a  class conditional  probability  for  feature  one, feature  y  equal  to  yes. If  we  equal  how  to  attain  this  value, we  need  to  look  at  the  t  samples. This  is  a  class  one,  class  one  for feature  yes.  What  is  the  probability? For  all  samples,  so  belong  to  class  one, how  many  samples  at  has  a  feature  of  x  a  yes. We  look  at  that  Here we  have  three  sample  in  class  one  ps. Then  the  first  sample  pass the  feature  x  y,  yes  is  one. Then  for  the  second  p  sample, the  feature  confident  feature  number  is  no. Then  the  third  sample  p  sample, the  feature  number  es  is  yes. Among  the  three  samples, X  one  tag  value  of  yes  is  two  samples. This  means  the  probability  for  x  y equal  to  yes  given  Omega one  should  be  to  the  to the  There  you  can't  home  samples actually  have  a  value  for  x  two  yes, give  Omega  one,  for  example  in  class  one, you  can't  home  you  can  have  also  two  that. Then  for  the  feature  X  three, six,  you  can't  home  samples  have  value  of  no. Actually  among  the  three  samples  that  p, the  class  m  one. Then  only  one  sample  have  a  value  of  nu. This  means  the  probability  class  cinal probability  here  is  one. This  is  for  the  class  one, among  all  the  three  features. Similarly,  we  can  find  the  Cal  probability, for  x  y  equal  yes,  given  Omega  two. Omega  two  mean  the  sample  in  class  two. If  we  go  back,  look  at  the  training  sample, class  two  have  two  samples,  is  the  fiel. This  is  sample  sample. We  will  look  at  the  official  value  of  x  y, y  is  no,  another  is  yes. This  means  the  probability  of  taking value  yes  for  the  confident. For  the  sample  in  the  class  two  is  one. Half  one  half,  because one  value  divided  by  the  two, to  mean  two  sample  in  class  two. So  we  can  get  it  one  half. Then  also  among  the  two  samples, we  look  at  how  many  values  for  feature  X  two. Take  the  value  of  yes, the  tree  again  is  12,  one. That  probably  is  one  half. Then  this  one  also  one  half. Then  the  tree  You can  calculate  the  joint  probabilities. P  x  m  one  times  the  P  Omega  one, equal  to  all  the  value  just now  we  look  at  should  be the  probability  k  of  x  y  to  that,  given  mg. Then  times  another  two  that, that  say  x  two  given  m  x  two  equal  to y  given  mg.  Then  one, that  is  the  six  equal  to  no  given. These  are  the  value  that. Then  for  the  second,  also  the  value. These  additional  function. By  compare  these  values, the  first  value  is  greater. That  means  that  we  should  sign the  sample  to  class  one. We  use  this  jo  probably  as  the  dial  function, then  the  sample  will  be classified  to  that  is  pass. This  is  I  mean  the  Bani  NU  base  classified. This  is  very  important.  You  must know  this,  very  important. Now  we  look  at  the  type. That  is  the  multinomal  n  base. This  multinomal  nas  is  often used  for  the  test  classifications. For  example,  we  are  going to  explain  this  through  the  examples. Here  we  also  have  some  samples. The  input  here  is  test. Agree  game.  And  then the  corresponding  class  label  is sports.  The  mean  this  test. Should  be  classified  into  the  category  of sports.  A  great  game. This  mean  a  game  competition, a  putba  game  or  whatever. This  is  a  new  sub  sports. Then  another  is  the  election  was  over. This  is  politics,  not  sport. Another  class  is  just  not  sports. Then  we  have  a  sample,  very  clean  match. Then  also  sports. Then  we  have  two  classes  sport  nine  sports. These  are  the  five  samples. These  are  the  training  samples. Now  we  have  a  new  sample. We  want  to  perform  a  classification. Now  we  have  new  sample. This  new  sample  is  a  very  close  game, a  very  close  game. Of  course,  for  us,  we look  at  the  game  we  know this  probably  is  a  sport,  news. But  for  the  computer,  we need  to  use  an  IEL  base. How  to  how  to perform  this  classification  and for  this  a  very  close  game. This  should  be  the  probability  of the  spots  a  very  close  game. This  is  just  at  prove  this  act, but  now  this  ax  is  no  longer a  t  this  is  a  test, a  very  close  game.  This  is  just  x. What  is  the  probability  of  this at  belonging  to  spots? Now  I  treat  this  test  contain  multiple  words. We  assume  each  of  the  words are  inter  dependence. This  should  be  equal  to  the  probability based  on  the  ni  base. So  the  probability  of  a very  close  game  game  and  sports, that  times  the  probability  of, the  probability,  then  divided by  the  P  a  very  close  sort. Then  we  assume  the interdependent  between  the  words, close  game  are  interdependent. Then  this  should  be  equal  to  the  probability of  A,  given  spots, T  the  probability  of  given  probability of  close  given  spots. Then  finally  times  the  probability  of  spots. This  is  the  n  base. We  assume  that  inter  dependent between  the  words  here. Then  the  issue  here  is  how  to find  a  continual  probability. Of  A.  How  to  find  this, how  to  find  this,  how  to find  this,  how  to  find  this. Here  we  to  look  at  the  tranal  data. So  this  nine  spot  simulate. For  this  at  the  train  data, for  the  train  data, I  the  probability,  of  x  given  Omega, this  Xi  is  the  word, or  vary  or  close  game. This  X  i  is  just  value a  word  and  given  Omega. This  should  be  equal  to  the  cos  of  Xi  in the  Omega  class  Omega  and  then divided  by  the  k  equal  to  one  to  d  x  k  mega. Simply  we interpret  this,  what  is  the  numeric? The  numera  among  all  the  news, the  sample  class  omega. How  many  times  the  word  Xi  appears. Then  the  denominator  is among  all  the  samples, the  test  in  class  omega. What  is  the  total  number  of  words? This  is  the  denominator. This  is  the  frequency  of w  i  appears  relative  frequency, appears  in  the  test  of  class  Omega. I  could  be  a  sports  or  non  sports. Necessary, we  just  know  through the  example,  we  can  look  at  that. For  example,  for  the  A,  for  the  A. Now  we  have  three  samples  from  class  sports. One  sample,  sample. Then  we  for  the  train  samples from  class  sports. Wet  hom  A. The  first  sample,  we  have  A, a  good  game,  a  great  game.  We  have  one  A. Then  we  cut,  clean  match,  we  have  no, then  here  close  a  clear  forgettable  game. We  have  another  A.  Among  all  samples, the  test  in  class  sports,  appears  twice. Then  we  count  how  many  words  totally, in  the  samples  of  a  class  spots. We  can  count  them.  One,  two,  three, the  four,  five,  six, 78,  nine,  ten,  11. Totally  we  have  11  11  words in  the  samples  of  spots. But  appear  twice. That  mean,  what  is  the  probability  of  2/11? This  is  the  ana. Then  for  the  close  for  the  close, because  our  sample  is  a  very  close  game. What  is  the  vary? Then  we  again  look  at  how  many times  the  vary  appears  in the  samples  of  sports. Actually,  you  look  at  that. In  the  first  sample,  we  don't  have  a  vary. In  the  second  sample, we  have  a  vary  and  then  one. Then  the  sample,  actually  we  have  a  vary. Vary  appears  once,  so  we  have  one. Then  that  is  the  probability  just  one  or  11. Then  a  close  game, then  we  check  the  close. What  is  the  probability  of  close? Then  the  first  sample,  we  don't  have  a  close. E  the  second  sample,  we  don't  have  close. Either  the  sample  of  spot, we  don't  have  close.  Appears  zero. Then  if  we  actually  count this  then  the  probability we  calculate  the  probability, then  we  can  have  a  zero  for  the  close is  11,  0/11  is  zero. Then  later  when  we multiply  all  the  probability, ten  probability,  one  of  the  value  is  zero, then  the  multiplication  is  zero. This  is  the  one  issue. I  or  to  address this  issue  and  they  introduce  a so  called  a  plus  smooth. La  smooth,  that  means that  tree  for  each  of  the  words. At  least  we  assume  it  appears  once. Then  these  are  tree  probability, this  cos  x  i Omega  j  for  the  first  word  like  close, either  Omega  j,  how  many  times  it  appears, zero,  but  now  plus  one  then  become  one. Then  the  denominator  denominator what  is  the  D.  D here  is  number  of unit  words  in  all  trino  samples, including  sports  and  non  sports. This  d  is  a  total  number  of  unique  words. This  is  the  d. For  each  of  them  we  can  also  substitute, then  we  can  address  this  zero  value  problem. This  is  the  plus  smoothing. If  you  use  the  plus  smoothing, then  for  the  cd, now  the  value  is  zero  plus  one. Then  for  the  denominator. We  know  the  number  of words  appear  in  the  class  is  11. Then  plus  the  d,  what  is  d, the  total  number  of  union  words  among all  the  samples  of  all  classes. Here  is  a  14,  it's  11  plus  14. 1/25,  this  value  is  small, but  as  no  zero. This  is. After  the  lap  is  smoothing, then  we  can  get  the  different  values. Now  actually,  we  see  that  we  look  at the  probability,  the  push  probability, and  then  we  use  la  plus  smoothing,  right? So  for  the  appear  twice,  two  plus  one. Then  divided  by  the  11  plus  14  25, then  p  appear  one  plus  one. Then  divided  by  11  plus  foe.  The  2/25. Close  appears  in  zero, then  we  plus  one  then  become  11  times  25. Then  game  then  appear  twice, then  plus  one  just  three  divided  by  the  25, that  times  the  proferability. A  will  sample  belong  to  class  sports. It's  three  fifth  0.6. We  can  calculate  the  numeric  part is  just  the  john  probability. The  denominator  in  the  px, so  we  can  ignore  the  denominator. Similarly,  we  can  look  at  the  probability of  belonging  to  nine  no  sports. This  is  the  value.  Certainly  this  value is  greater  than  this  value. This  this  at  sample will  be  classified  into  class  spots. This  is  the  multinomial  nine  base for  text  classification. Actually,  it  is  very  powerful  this  method. Is  a  very  fast  effect  efficient  and g  for  text  classification, Multinomal  nie  base. These  are  the  three  types  of no  base,  three  types. Gau  function,  no  des  for  continuous  features. Then  for  categorical  feature, binary  values,  we  use  at  binno  base. Then  for  test  classification,  like  this, we  use  multmal  at  no  base. Then  in  the  assignment  number  one, actually  the  question  will be,  actually  the  continual. The  feature  all  continuous. We  use  at  the  normal  function to  build  as  with  the  conditional  pc. I  I  think  that  I already  put  the  assignment number  one  on  the  website, and  in  the  code  of  assignment, and  we  will  have  two  assignments. So  the  next  assignment  will be  a  released  on  week  eight. That  is  after  recess. Next  week  is  the  recess  week. After  recess  the  week  eight, we  the  assignment  number  two. You  finish  the  two  assignment, then  combine  the  two  assignment into  one  single  document, one  file,  PDF  file. Don't  include  more  file,  just  one  file. And  I  in  the  file  at, no  need  to  put  the  code. I  don't  need  the  code, and  you  just  show the  values  of  the  class  files, and  also  you  just  put the  predations  of the  class  labels  in  the  file. Don't  take  an  additional file  file  for  the  class  label. You  just  show  the  values  in  your  document. Just  combine  the  two  assignment into  one  document. And  then  submit  as submission  portal  in  the  food  of  assignment. Okay.  I  remember  the  deine  is  19  October. So  you  have  at  about  three  weeks  time. No  to  complete  the  assignment. So  the  two  assignments  accounts  for  20% of  your  final  result.  Okay. So  yeah,  I  think  that's  all. Yeah.  Thank  you. Okay.  Thank  you. Oh.
