We  start  class.  From  this  week  week  five until  the  last  week  13, and  we  had  to  study the  machine  learn  part  of  this  course. I  totally  in  the  13  weeks but  nine  weeks  on  the  machen  part. You  can  see  the  tage of  this  machlen  part  in  this  course. Actually  this  age  is  also  reflected  in the  continuous  assessment  and  the  U. Totally  know  the  continual assessment  account  for  40%. We  know  in  all  the  MSC  courses or  the  em  alguic  courses, and  the  continual  assessment  account  for  40%. Quiz  one  on  the  generic  organ  part actually  is  a  10%. Then  in  the  machine  part, continual  assessment  is  30%. This  30%  is  composed of  actually  three  couples. We  have  two  assignments  and  one  quiz. Maybe  I  first  talk  about  the  quiz. At  the  quiz  will  be  also  Tuesday. Tuesday,  tenth  of November,  that  is  the  last  week. Last  week,  Tuesday,  and  as  we  know  we have  so  many  MS  students, and  it's  really  hard  to find  a  venue  for  a  quiz. We  have  around  800  students. We  need  to  have  a  tasa  tree  like. I  think  so  a  few  very  big  electri  theaters. You  want  to  actually  conduct  this  quiz. C  reboot  the  venue actually  after  the  class  930-1030. Otherwise,  we  need  to  actually  tat the  quiz  maybe  on  Saturday  on  12  or  th. Maybe  we  just  actually  ta a  quiz  in  the  evening  930-10. The  quiz  this  quiz  is  10%. And  then  the  two  assignment,  20%. In  the  assignment,  I  will  give  you  some  data. So  then  you  panel  classification  models. I  use  the  training  data. After  the  model  is  obtained, then  you  predate  the  class  label and  on  the  testing  data. So  in  the  two  assignments, the  data  is  the  same,  but  maybe  you need  to  use  different  classifiers, into  train  two  different  classifiers, and  then  actually  make  predictions based  on  the  two  different  classifier and  then  compare  the  performance. The  two  assignment  at  will be  released  on  week  sen  eight  and finally  need  to  complete the  two  assignment  and  combine the  two  into  one  single  file and  submit  by  week  ten. I  think  seven  at one  I  release  the  assignment. Actually,  we  will  talk  about more  details  about  the  submission. Actually,  I  will  create a  portal  on  the  NT  line  co  site, and  then  you  can  just  upload your  file  PDF  five  and  then  into  the  portal. This  is  a  al  assessment. 30%  from  the  machenal  part. Then  the  tage  of the  machen  part  is also  reflected  in  the  final  exam. In  the  final  exam,  we  have  four  questions. One  question  from  the  genetic  organ  part. A  three  questions  from  the  machenal  part. T  question  as  part  and Amally  the  three  question  two  question from  actual  later  in  size, and  then  maybe  one  question  from  the  Acho  n. At  some  students,  maybe you  many  student  writes  on different  courses  on  the  St also  some  of  the  coms. I  see  some  students  say the  question  changing from  semester  to  semester. Yes,  actually  we  change  the  question. Every  semester. And  actually  we  co  very broad  actually in  the  scope  of  machine  learning. We  can  set question  actually  in  different  part. Every  year  we  change  the  questions. Some  students  maybe  on the  social  media  and  then  see, I  just  spent  10  hours  on  the  case. I  don't  attend  class,  I  don't  re  knows, I  don't  actually  what  the  videos. I  don't  care  about  the  case  of  fin. I  just  know  revision  res  of  10  hours, I  final  score  A  minus. I  just  need  to  work  on  the  poss  paper. That  is  totally  wrong. We  change  the  question  from semester  to  semester. If  you  just  work  on  the  exam question,  you  may  fail. At  the  least  you  cannot  get  a  good  result. So  I  think  you  to  keep  this  in  mind, and  you  can  take  the  pass  exam  as a  reference  and  to  look  at the  format  of  the  exam. The  question  how  the prefer  set  question  for  mech  part. But  we  change  the  question  actually  from semester  to  semester.  Okay. So  yeah,  exam  and  the  continued  assessment. Okay.  Okay.  Let's  at before  I  talk  about the  topic  we're  going  to  cover  this  course. We  first  go  to  some  very  important  terms, concept  at  the  AN  mach. This  includes  AI,  artificial  tangents, mach,  neural  networks,  and  Den. I  AI  is  so  popular  nowadays. In  particular  after  the  generative  model, T  AA  and  almost  everyone  talk  about  AI. Son  is  pret.  But  actually, many  of  the  people  use these  words  interchangeably. The  A  A  is  machen. A  is  a  new  net  word,  A  just  Dpnu. Actually  each  of  these  term actually  has  their  own  scope. I  think  we  need  to  be clear  with  the  scope  of  each  of  this  term. Then  actually  next  time when  you  talk  about  these  terms, I  should  actually  talks  part  in  the  area. You  should  precisely  use  these  words. We  first  look  at the  AI  artificial  intelligence  and the  mechan  A  artificial  intelligence. First, we  have  human  intelligence, human  intelligence. Artificial  intelligence  actually  simulate or  mimic  human  intelligence. A  artificial  intelligence  is a  very  broad  term. An  techniques  that  human  behavior, human  intelligence,  now  can be  considered  as  an  AI  technique. It's  very  broad  For  example, we  have  the  vial  an  system, we  observe  the  surroundings, we  observe  the  word  our  eyes, and  then  we  understand what  is  happening  in  the  surroundings. We  recognize  what  are  the objects  in  the  surroundings. This  is  with  human  have  the  van  system. A  and  we  can  also mimic  this  human  in  the  system. That  is  computer  ion. AA  and  very  important  So field  is  the  computer  vision. Handling  the  ideal  information  such as  the  images,  videos. Also  at  the  human  act  can communicate  with  the  language  can  understand, and  so  um  This is  the  natural  language  procession. Ming  humans  capability  to  understand  to communicate  to  ps  using  language. Then  either  AA,  they  have the  NLP  natural  language  procession. Also  simulate  a  mimic  humans  in the  movement  and  the  activities  behaviors, then  we  have  the  robotics, which  now  the  a  hot  area, and  also  the  autonomous  driving. These  are  just  some  examples. An  techniques  that  mimic human  behavior  and  the  human  intelligent, can  be  considered  as  a  techniques. In  certain  period  of  research  career  at, I  work  on  one  thing  that  is the  electronic  nose  with no  the  human  fill  rather  smells, sens  that  smells  and smell  is  an  important  at. And  a  measurement. So  then  how  to simulate  the  human  nose  to  recognize at  to  build  a  machine to  build  a  D  wise  to  recognize  the  smells. That  is  the  electronic  nose. Is  a  simulation  or mimic  humus  factory  system. We  use  a  multiple  sensors  to  build  a  sensor, get  sensors,  then  acquire  the  signal, then  we  do  analysis. Because  every  different  smells, have  different  responses on  the  different  sensors. It's  a  combination  of  the  different responses  of  the  different  sensors, will  produce  a  certain  patent. We  can  use  AM  techniques to  recognize  the  patents, corresponding  to  each  kind  of  smells. This  also  a  technique  because similarly  the  human  affect  ty systems.  This  is  A. Also  from  this  figure,  you  can  see, mache,  the  green  part is  just  a  subfield  of  A. Indeed,  A  machen  is  a  subfield  of  AA. The  main  difference  here, I  think  the  main  characteristic of  the  machine that  machine  enables  machine to  learn  from  experience. The  parent  normally  I  mean  the  data. Machu  is  a  AI  techniques, but  it  is  a  data  driven. Is  a  data  driven  AI  technique. Machine  linear  is  the  data  driven. Actually  if  you're  looking at  the  development of  the  artificial  intelligence, from  1950s  to  1970s,  1980s, I  think  the  dominant  approach  is the  so  called  per  system, the  rule  based  rule  base. Act.  So  we  have  a  lot  of  rules. These  rules  are  normally  acquired  from  a  Sp. And  for  a  specific  task, and  for  demain,  we  have  some  expert, and  they  have a  very  good  knowledge  about  that  demain. We  have  high  knowledge  from  this  deminer. Then  summarize  this  into  rules. Then  in  the  computer  program, we  can  co  this  into  rules. Remember  in  1980s, actually  my  master's  degree, one  of  the  courses  is  call  expert  system. That  time  actually  no  expert  system was  the  dominant  approach. Nowadays,  I  think  from  1970, 1980s  until  now, I  no  machine  linear  data  driven  approach. Data  driven  is  the  dominant  approach. Of  course,  the  data  driven  and then  a  statistical  algorithm that  St  plays  important  roles. This  is  the  machine  is  the  data  driven. Previously  before this  is  in  the  first  generation, it  is  a  knowledge  event.  Knowledge  rev. Is  a  rule  based  system, but  now  is  a  data driven.  These  are  a  difference. Our  in  practice,  we  may not  have  to  achieve  separate  tool. In  a  system,  we  just  try  to  use  the  data. We  ignore  the  knowledge. If  the  knowledge  is  available, at  no  we  can  combine  the  knowledge  and  data. We  can  integrate  to  build  a  hybrid  system. Actually  in  the  past  few  years, actually  also  my  research  is p  how  to  integrate  the  knowledge  and  data. It  to  produce  at AA  system  with  improved  performance. The  knowledge  can  be  something like  a  compressed  data. It's  also  summarized  summarize  data. It  also  is  traded  from  the  data. Knowledges  useful. Sometimes  the  data  is  very limited  in  a  specific  task. So  if  we  introduce  knowledge  into  the  system. Firstly  actually  we  can reduce  the  requirement  or the  number  of  samples. Secondly,  the  knowledge  base normally  the  rule  base,  has  some  rules. These  rules  are  sum  by  humans. Naturally,  these  rules is  understandable  by  humans. The  system  with  a  rules that  is  more  understandable, more  explainable  for  for  the  desan. No  necessary  winding,  really  need  to separate  the  two  types  of techniques  and  often  we can  integrate  them  into one  single  system  to  produce improved  or  robust  performance, explainable  solutions. Okay.  The  next  I think  the  mach  neural  networks  and  deepnu. At  machine  Lnu  at  is  a  data  driven, and  the  neural  network  and  deep also  actual  data  driven  approach. So  a  neural  network  and the  wind  train  new  network  using  data. Neural  network  is  a  subfield  of  machen. At  we  can  use  different  kind  of  models. For  example,  we  can  use  linear  models. A  new  network  in  non  linear  models. Certainly  neural  network  is just  a  sub  field  act  of  machil. Actually,  even  for  non  linear  models, we  can  have  different  non  linear  model, polynomial  models,  rational  models. The  new  network  is just  one  type  of  non  linear  functions. Certainly  subfield  of  the machineu,  and  new  network. Can  have  just  a  few  very  few  layer, two  layer  three  layers. These  kind  of  new  networks  are called  shadow  new  networks. The  new  network  can  also  have  many  layers, py  layers,  100  layers. This  kind  of  new  network  are called  deep  new  networks. Dep  new  network  is  just  one  kind of  new  networks. Certainly  deep  new  networks, and  deepn  is  a  subfield  of  new  networks. This  diagram  clearly  shows the  relation  shape  of  all  the  four  terms, AI,  machine,  ne  networks, and  the  Dep  new  network  dieline. Okay.  So  everyone  has  their  own  scope. So  next  time  when  you  use  these  words, actually,  I  hope  you  can  use  them. Precisely,  when  you  mean  machen, really  machinu. Dep  network,  just  depe  networks. This  is  the  four  terms. A  in  this  course  of  code, we  only  top  up  the  machenu, and  we  don't  cover near  networks  and  deep  nee  networks. But  in  another  course  normally  offer SMS  two  and  actually  72  oh  seven, new  network  and  din, and  we  will  cover  near  network  and  Dilan. We  also  teach  this  course  part of  the  course  7207. This  is  the  scope, we  just  actually  focus  on  I think  the  machine  part  and  not  all  models. We  don't  start  the  new  networks. Based  on  the  act,  so  this is  the  topic  we're going  to  cover  in  this  course. Actually  later  we  will  talk  about a  different  type  of  linuum. We  have  sun,  we  have  an  chinum, and  we  have  reinforced  millennium. In  this  case  actually,  we  only cover  spin  and  an  tiin. What  is  nu,  what  is  chi  num? We'll  talk  about  that  later. Under  the  sum,  we  will  actually  study four  types  of  pen  class  pis. Actually  these  four  types actually  are  carefully  selected. First  method  basin  decision  rule  is a  statistical  based  method. We  made  prediction  based on  the  poor  probabilities. This  object  has  a probability  the  probability  of this  object  belonging  to  this  class  is  70%. The  probability  belong  to  another  30%. We  make  a  decision  based on  which  class  had  the  maximum. Probabilities.  These  are  probability  based. Then  it's  a  decision, decision  is  also  kind  of  the  classification and  can  be  considered a  combination  of  many  rules. But  the  rules  are  built  in  a  tree  structure. This  is  a  classification  tree. In  this  part,  we  also  talk about  the  random  face, which  is  also  very  popular actually  classifier  random  force is  built  on  the  decent  trees. Then  we  also  actually  talk about  two  linear  classifiers. One  is  called  a  linear  desal  analysis. Another  is  suborn. These  two  classifiers  actually  belong  to the  perform  classification  using a  linear  equation,  linear  equations. But  these  two  class  have different  considerations  on  good  classifiers. I  think  the  idea  there  is  really  great  ideas. I  select  these  two  and  introduce  to  you. In  this  code  for  super, we  will  study  four  types  of  pen  classifiers. They  all  represent  different  types. Of  that,  we  will  actually  talk  about the  de  minority  reduction and  official  selation. So  normally  in  the  data  eision  stage, and  the  data  could  be  high  dimensional. We  want  to  reduce  the  number  of  dimensions. That  is  called  dominology  reduction. Either  code  we  top  up  this and  domino  reduction  and  official  selation, and  also  the  evaluation  of  classifications. You  design  classify,  you  make predictions  based  on  the  classified  line. But  what  is  the  quality  of  the  classify? That  is  the  evaluation. We  also  introduce  different evaluation  procedures and  also  evaluation  metrics. Under  the  sun,  there  are  two  main  topics. One  is  called  classification, not  talk  about  four  types. Classifies  all  belong  to  the  classification. Classification.  Under  this  nar, there  are  another  topic  which  is called  regression. I  also  introduce  regression. A  region  is a  smaller  topic  than  the  classification. Maybe  we  just  use  a  2  hours, 3  hours  to  cove  the  regression  part. But  larger  part  will  be on  the  classified  design. For  iron  rod  base  line is  the  c  group  of  the  data. We  will  study  the  four  ty  cluster  methods, and  central  base method  hierarchical  base  method, then  the  distribution  base  method, a  density  base  method. I  find  we  also studied  the  evaluation  cluster. For  this  course,  the  objective  is  to give  you  a  mast  meta  introduction above  the  machine  linear. Through  this  course,  I  hope you  could  build  a  good  foundation. Foundation.  This  is  a  foundation  cost, and  we  just  cover  the  basics. Some  of  you  probably  already familiar  with  at  the  machen, or  some  of  you  are probably  on  some  of  the  proj  res  machen. But  I  think  this  course  will  still  give  you  a very  systematic  at  introduction. Even  you  know  mech,  I  still hope  you  can  actually  spend  effort, actually,  go  through  all  the  courses, every  part  of  the  course. Some  of  you  I  probably I  very  new  to  the  new  to  you. I  think  the  are  good  chance also  from  scratch, almost  zero  foundation,  zero  knowledge about  machll.  But  no  worry. I  will  start  from  the  basics. Also  in  the  case,  I  will  not  focus on  no  matematic  I  will  focus  on  ideas. Why  at  this  tion. Also  through  this  lecture, you  can  understand  at  a  D  MS  per  in  metal, how  the  analyze  the  problems. This  is  the  objective.  No  or  the  node, I  read  this,  but  hot the  class  can  follow  my  logic  flows. Then  you  can  see  give me  a  problem,  how  to  analyze  that. What  we  should  we  consider when  we  design  a  panel classify  to  solve  real  world  problems.  Okay. Then  before  these  two, I  then  and  at, we  also  have  an  introduction  to  machine  Ln. That  is  today's  task. Introduction  machine  nu. Next  week,  the  data  preparation. I  just  mentioned,  mach  data  data  method, we  need  to  build  a  model  from  the  data. Data  is  the  raw  material  from  machelnu, without  data,  and  then we  cannot  have  a  model. Also  we  have  a  CN  machen. The  garbage  in  garbage out,  garbage  mean  rubbish. If  the  data  quality  is  very  bad, then  the  model  is also  very  bad.  It's  not  reliable. If  you  want  to  have  a  good  model  that can  produce  reliable  predictions. And  then  the  quality  of the  data  must  be  high. In  the  next  week,  actually we  systematically  to study  the  data  exploration and  the  preparation  for  machine  lineal. Now  there  are  a  lot  of open  source  code  on  the  Internet. G  Hub  or  whatever  you  can  always find  a  lot  of  open  source  code. Machine  lineal  is  not  something like  a  qui  some  data, put  it  down  open  source  code and  then  predate  model. If  this  is  the  case,  any  project can  be  fined  within  one  day. Can  we  certainly  not. Actually,  the  machine  problem  not actually  maybe  as  so  straightforward as  someone  will  link. And  every  machine  problem has  the  data  has  on  characteristics. Also  for  the  we  have different  demand  requirement  on the  result  of  the  mach  on the  perdia  from  the  machal  models. We  must  carefully analyze  the  specific  problem. Look  at  the  data.  Look  at  the  data, what  kind  of  data  it  had  the  type  of  data. In  the  next  week  we  will  study  also one  of  the  top  going  to cover  the  type  of  data. The  data  could  be  continuous. Numerical  just  like  the  temperature  of the  room  is  a  real  number. The  data  could  be  also  categorical. For  example,  we  talk  about gender  of  a  person,  male  or  female, only  two,  actually  nationality. These  are  categoricals. Some  of  the  main  or  best  is the  data  is  a  continuous and  it  is  a  follow  normal  distribution or  gi  distribution. By  in  practice,  some  of  the  data  is  mixed. Some  of  the  features  continuous  or  variables, some  of  the  features  categorical. Categorical  with  some  ordinal  or  nominal. This  data  certainly  you  know, I  will  use  a  bass  decision  rule, tan  function to  build  the  probabilsy  function. Certainly  the  component  cannot  be  good. But  some  of  the  classified  a  decision  tree can  handle  this  mixed  data  very  well. Given  a  problem,  we  must  explore  the  data. Also  sometimes  the  data  is  noise, and  some  issues  like Outliers,  submission  values, we  must  carefully  at  address all  the  issues  and  to produce  high  quality  training  data, and  then  high  quality model  could  be  obtained, and  then  reliable  predictions  can be  made  from  the  high  quality  of  the  model. Machine  get  data,  put the  open  source  code and  then  get  a  model.  That's  all. No.  If  this  is  the  case, C  fine  no  machal problem  project  within  1  hour, half  hour,  10  minutes.  Not  so  easy. Also  there  are  a  lot  of  issues  in  the  data. Data  also  in  some we  top  about  this  again,  so  the  data. When  we  perform  data  acquisition, what  point  we  should  note to  actually  produce  a  good  model. The  t  is  the  introductory to  machen,  very  basic, basic  basic  concept  to  machine  lineal. These  are  reference  book. So  we  talk  about  the  foundation. This  textbook  I  think  although published  many  years  ago. But  this  textbook  are  still I  think  good  textbook, and  then  easy  to  read  easy  to  follow. Probably  you  can  borrow or  you  can  buy  such  books. Nowadays  the  material  of mach  AM  material, machine  material  everywhere. A  lot  of  material  on  the  Internet. Of  co  nowadays,  we  can also  learn  make  full  use  of the  generative  model  like  DBT and  also  mini  CT and  even  if  you  use  a  free  copy, free  version,  the  still  at  least certify  our  need  to  study  certain  costs. If  you  are  c  of  cod  welcome  to  ask  me, HE  can  also  with a  ch  DBT  ch  help  you  clarify  your  dots. And  also  a  lot  of  research  papers, tutorials,  little  reviews  on  the  Internet. You  how  relevant  document  on  the  Internet. This  is  the  reference  books  and also  the  material  we  can use  to  have  you  study  this  course. That's  an  introduction  to  machll. So  Machine  machine  computer. Actually  artificial  intelligence. Certainly  mem  human  intelligence, to  go  before  the  machine  we  to understand  what  is  humann  What is  linu  the  lineal in  these  a  concept  we studied  different  sub  fel, but  maybe  not  the  artificial  reagen some  maybe  under  the  artificial  tags. I  the  cognitive  size, I  studied  the  brain,  new  system, the  brain,  and  then they  have  such  a  definition. Liu  is  typically  referred  to  the  process of  gaining  knowledge from  observations.  This  can. We  gain  knowledge  through  observations. I  think  happens  every  moment. Actually,  you  start  learning  of this  course  when  you  step into  the  lecture  theater. For  me,  actually  I  also  learn. And  in  the  mou  I  have  a  lecture  here. This  is  the  first  time  I  actually  had a  lecture  in  this  classroom. Normally,  I  give  lectures  in the  lecture  data  near triple  E.  But  this  is  the  first  time. I  also  learn.  I  come  earlier  in  the  morning, I  get  familiar  with  the set  of  the  console  table. Because  the  triple  E  p  maybe  some  different. I  learn,  you  come  to the  classroom,  you  observe  me. You  also  learn  what the  professor  like  and  what  is  temper, what  his  knowledge  about  bn. You  also  learn.  You  gain  knowledge  about  me. You  also  gain  knowledge  about bn  through  observations. This  can,  a  gain knowledge  through  our  observations. Menu  happens  at  every  moment. With  more  with  more  Ln, and  then  we  can  actually  address we  similar  problem  in the  future  more  efficiently. I  believe  all  have  the  experience, and  many  of  you  maybe  from  other  countries. First  time  you  came  to  NTU, came  to  NTCmp,  to  came  to  the  theater. Maybe  you  look  at  the  timetable, T  29,  198,  W  is  it? You  spend  some  time  to  figure out  where  then  ok. But  actually,  you  learn. The  first  time  you  spend  some  time less  time  now  already  week  file. I  believe  you  come  to  this  almost  ever  list. No  need  to  think  about  we. You  go  straight  from  anywhere  from your  home  from  county  and  to  the  lure  data. Because  you  learn  in the  first  few  weeks  about the  location  about the  setting  of  this  classroom. Now  you  can  come  to  this  classroom, la  data  19  A  more  efficiently. Because  you  have  more  len.  This  is  lnu. Lu  is  to  gain  knowledge from  observation  from  experience. With  more  lining,  we  can  solve the  problem  more  efficiently. This  is  a  definition  by  human  lnu. Later  when  we  look  at  the  machine  nu, similarly,  we  to  learn  from  the  observation, but  this  observation  could  be data  in  the  past  already  happened. Then  we  learn  model, and  this  len  model  is  not  our  optim  goal. Our  ultimate  goal  is  to  apply this  lend  model  to make  predictions  for  future  data. This  is  similar.  We  land  the  setuns, we  land  where  the  location. Not  just  for  one,  is  for  the  following  weeks. I  so  that  you  can  come  to the  lager  data  more  efficiently. No  need  to  claim  here, I  need  to  leave  home at  the  five  because  I  don't  know  where, I  need  to  spend  some  time  to locate  it.  No  no  need. 6:00  P.M.  From  your  home then  dy  to  come  to  the  laser  data. You  lanes  for  future  use. This  is  the  human  lane. For  human  neu,  and  we  have  a  few  types and  the  arenium  director and  the  per  guidance. Liu  guided  by  knowledge  lend  from  press. Now  we  guide  by  the  knowledge. The  knowledge  of  course  lend  from p.  This  second  type, the  type  is  self  line. We  look  at  the  first,  Liu and  the  Sp  guidance. I,  I  think  for  everyone, I  believe  our  parents were  our  first  mentors  or  teachers, and  then  we  are  baby, we  learn  from  parents,  we  learn  from  parents. Because  they  are  the  main  expert. They  tell  you  how  to  behave, they  tell  you  how  to  eat, they  tell  you  the  man, they  tell  you  how  to  speak,  everything. Our  first  mentor  teacher,  our  parents. Then  you  go  to  went  to  primary  school, you  learn  from  the  teachers. You  learn  for  the  math, you  learn  the  summation, you  learn  the  subtation, you  learn  multiplication, learn  divisions  because they  are  pers  On these  very  basic  mathematics. You  also  learn  language, the  vocabularies  because  they are  the  M  S  press. La  when  you  went  to  University, then  you  learn  high  scale, high  level  skill,  you have  more  complex  knowledge. And  then  you  learn  from  purposes, they  are  the  M  S  press. Even  after  graduation,  you  go  to  work. I  then  normally  the  company will  assign  you  a  mentor. At  least  at  the  beginning, they  guide  you  know  how  to  work and  how  to  complete  a  project. Actually  a  whole  life actually,  we  learn  from  SP. Then  probably  already  you  also  observe, some  old  people,  grandparents, not  familiar  with  the  new  techniques. Then  they  don't  know  how  to  use  social  media, how  to  operate  smartphones. They  learn  from  their  grandchildren. Grandchildren  are the  teachers  of  the  grandparents. We  see  from  a  baby until  we're  old  until  the  grandparents. We  always  learn  under guidance  of  the  Dm  perse. The  grand  children  are  the  Dampers. They  are  familiar  with  the  new  techniques, they  are  familiar  with  smart  functions. Our  whole  life  actually  use this  type  of  linim  and  the  guid  S  pers. Also,  this  is  also  I  in the  artificial  intelligence  in the  first  generation  of  AA, now  it's  a  rule  based  in  knowledge  driven. We  directly acquire  knowledge  from  the  MS  pers. A  in  the  past,  there  is  one  occupation. I  think  they  call a  knowledge  engineer,  knowledge  engineer. Their  responsibility  is  just to  acquire  knowledge  from  DS  per. Then  they  can  summarize the  knowledge  into  rules, and  then  they  they run  computer  program  to  implement  the  rules. I  also  inspired  by  the  umenu. In  the  first  generate  AI  the  lane  from the  D  S  press and  the  garden  of  the  D  S  press. This  is  the  first  tub  of  lineu then  the  second  type  of  neu is  lining  guided  by  the at  the  knowledge  gained  from  S  pers. Here  now  just  give  one  example. Maybe  a  child,  a  baby  is  given actually  man  pieces  of  toys, and  then  maybe  the  parent  asked  him or  her  to  separate  them  into  two  groups. Then  the  baby  can  separate  them, actually  into  the  toys  into  one  group, and  then  the  green  toys  into  another  group. This  task  is  very  specific. Maybe  parent  never  know the  baby  and  how  to  do  this  task. But  then  at  a  certain  time, the  the  baby,  the  knowledge  of  colors. If  this  is  nu  guide  by  knowledge  is  applying the  knowledge  actually  acquired some  time  ago  from  the  DMS  purse. This  also  can.  Actually  nal here  is  basically  the  applied  knowledge. So  The  knowledge  learned  just  about  this. I  think  this  is  very  important. Learn  you  guided  by  the  knowledge. Now  you  learn  machine  lining knowledge  in  this  course. Then  in  the  future,  new  applications never  covered  in  this  course. Objective  of  course,  you  could apply  your  knowledge  in  this  course, acquire  from  me  as p  for  your  future  applications. Future  application,  nobody  can  foresee. I  have  no  idea  what the  possible  future  application. In  the  next  year,  maybe even  later  in  the  next  future. I  don't  know.  I  have  no  idea. But  based  with  the  knowledge, we'll  learn  in  this  course. You  can  apply  the  knowledge  to the  news  in  the  future. This  is  just  like  this  case  learning  guided by  the  knowledge  gain  from  a  press. We  don't  tell  people to  solve  a  specific  problem. Instead,  we  teach  the  general  knowledge. This  is  the  case. Another  example  rights  here, and  then  we  have  a  few  words, four  words  and  then  we  have  to divide  them  into  one  group. You  see  which  word  is  different  from  others. We  certainly  we  write  the  word  others  nos. Maybe  this  t  never  taught  by  the  parents. But  the  teachers,  But  before  this, they  about  about  the  orbs  or  other  words. They  have  this  knowledge,  they  use the  knowledge  to  solve  a  specific  problem. Is  the  general,  this general  knowledge  to  solve  a  problem. This  is  the  second  time. Guided  by  the  knowledge, Alt  from  the  mean  S  p, not  directly  guided  by  the  S  pert. Then  that  type  is  by  self. Chh  Normally, cf  normally  we  learn  from  mistakes, and  I  think  now  autonomous  driving, also  I  think  like  reinforced  millennium, I  think  it  is  inspired  by  this  n  cf  neu. These  are  the  three  types  of  scheme. This  chum  always  give  some  inspirations. We  do  mechllnal  research actually  every  time  I  talk  about  this  point, I  always  actually  actually tell  my  research  student  PD  student or  some  research  staffs. Sometimes  you  have  no  idea. How  to  develop  a  machine  orgim, you  don't  know  how  to  develop.  No  problem. You  first  put  that  aside. You  think  about  you  as  a  human, you  are  very  intelligent. How  you  address  that  problem, H  human  intelligence,  Hum, how  you  address  that  problem. Then  you  can  just  think  about  this. Given  such  a  problem  normally, what  is  your  logic. How  you  address  this  problem. If  you  can  think clearly  about  your  thinking,  as  b  logic. Then  certainly,  this will  give  you  inspirations. On  the  machine  nar  algorithm. I  think  to  sang  the  hum, to  sign  the  human  way  of  solving  problem, and  then  is  very  important. Always  give  us  inspirations on  develop  new  machine  githms. Because  ultimately,  machen  as an  artificial  intelligence  aims to  simulate  mimic  human  intelligence. Certainly  human  way  of num  can  give  us  inspirations. That's  also  the  reason  why  I  actually use  few  slide  to  the  hum. Is  because  we  can  get  an inspiration  from  the  humillu. Okay.  Next,  we  talk  about  machine  lin. What  is  the  machine  linear? Machine  line  is  line, also  line,  but  this  line  performed  the  mate. Certainly,  this  should  be simulate  or  mimic  human  linear. So  here  we  have  two  questions. Do  machines  really  ask whether  the  machine  can really  lend  clan  or  not. If  so,  if  machine  can,  how  do  they  line? These  are  the  two  questions. Whether  machine  learn, here  we  have  a  definition. This  definition  is  from perfe  in  mach  from  the  CMU. It's  a  computer machine  machine  computer  program. It  said  to  learn  from  past I  no  in  the  past  rather  than  means what  happened  in  the,  the  past  data. If  it  performance improves  with  the  experience. Given  a  machine  len  algorithm, given  a  comic  program. Whether  we  see  this  program  can len  or  not,  can  lend. If  the  performance  of this  inal  program  improve, if  we  provide some  experience  to  this  machine, then  we  can  see  the  machine  lens, this  machine  can  lend  from  the  pass  arians. A  machine  in  the  umlaun is  a  process  to  gain  knowledge. With  more  nu,  we  can  solve the  problem  more  efficiently. That  means  that  with  more linear,  our  performance  improves. Here,  we  move,  we shift  this  and  transfer  these  idea, humiu,  and  as  a  criterion to  evaluate  the  machine  lin. If  the  performance  can improve  this  appearance, then  we  see  this  machine  can. Actually,  this  here  to  the  two. Machen,  that  means  that  it  is  able to  get  the  epis  by  doing  a  certain  task, get  data,  and  then  actually improve  performance  in  doing a  similar  task  in  the  future. At  here  the  very  important  concept here  is  that  when  you  do  a  certain  task, we  learn  from  a  certain  task. A  certain  experience.  We  gain  knowledge. The  knowledge  is  used to  improve  our  performance. When  we  do  the  similar  tasks  in the  future,  si,  similar. This  I  see  actually  something like  we  have  a  len  of knowledge  about  another  task. Then  we  use  this  model learning  result  model  to  solve actually  the  problem  of a  different  different  task. We  must  be  related. Of  course,  nowadays,  we  cannot  see this  data  of  other  demain  is  usually, we  cannot  see  that  because  transfer  len, I  can  transfer  some  knowledge from  a  different  domain, different  task  to  another  task. But  normally,  I  think  we  actually  we  will lend  from  the  experience. Then  in  the  future,  the  future  task  must be  closely  related  to  this  pass  experience. Then  the  performance  pro. I  totally  irrelevant,  then maybe  no  improvement  because sometime  we  see the  transfer  could  be  negative. Must  be  related  and then  then  we  can  improve  performance. Is  the  machneal  context, normally  these  are  no  positives. The  par  normally  mean  the  data. Data.  Show  lend  from  positive. So  machine  from  information  positive, this  mean  the  data. In  other  words,  machen  lens from  the  historical  data from  the  data  in  the  past. Then  we  apply  this  model  for  future  data. This  is  the  p  must  be  related. For  example,  if  you  want  to act  if  you  have experience  of  playing  checker, the  more  espera  you  have, then  the  performance  will improve,  for  the  future. This  act  is  related  relevant  experience. For  image  classification, this  pata  experience  normally represent  past  with  image  v  labels. Later  we'll  talk  about this  label  class  labels. An  this  experience  in  the  past. And  also  the  task  in the  future  should  be  very  closely  related. For  improve  perform  pla  checker, then  the  experience  of play  check  in  the  p  for classification  of  objects  in  the  future, also  the  p  experience of  classify  the  objects. The  related  experience. Then  nee, we  look  at  the  how  do  machine  lens. This  diagram  shows  at the  three  pass  in  machine  process. The  first  part  is  the  input  data  input  data. The  second  is  obst  that  is  generalization. First,  we  look  at  the  input  data. I  already  mentioned  the  importance  of  data. A  data  is  the  raw  material  for  lena. The  data  quality  directly determine  actually  the  quality  of  the  model, directly  determine  the  accuracy  and also  the  reliability  of the  predations  of  the  model  for  future  data. The  data  are  very  important. It  is  a  foundation  of  lane. Abstraion,  Aation  is  a  process to  represent  the  input  data. Normally,  we  land  a  model to  represent  input  data. This  is  called  abstraction. Abstraction  basically  the  lan, we  land  model,  model  from  the  input  data. This  the  abstraction. Of  coe  the  abstraction  is  a  general  concept. Nest  generalization. Generalization  is  applied  the  lane  model for  new  data  for  future  data. K?  Okay.  So,  maybe next  at,  we  have  a  ten  minute  break. Okay. So  normally  the  class  schedule  like  this. 630-720,  50  minutes.  That  is  one  session. Then  we  have  a  ten  minute  break. Then  730-820,  the  second  session, then  we  have  a  break  ten  minute  break. Then  I  try  to  a  finish  class  by  15  or  910. I  know  the  bus  could  be  very  busy, then  I  think  I  try  to  finish  act by  710  plus  nine. But  I  will  stay  here  for  some  time  and the  remaining  ten  minute is  for  question  and  answer. If  you  have  questions,  just  stay  here, you're  welcome  to  ask  me. If  you  end  questions,  you  can  just  go  home. No  we  will  end  the  class  of  910. 10  minutes  is  for  question  and  answer. Next,  we  have  a  ten  minute  break. Question.  A. Are  you  gonna  start  or  can  I ask  you  a  quick  quick  question?  Pro. I. Some  functions usage.  Everything  I  give  you. Just  now  we  know  in  a  machine  process actually  consists  of  three  paths, and  data,  the  input  data, then  btation,  and  then  generalization. Not,  we  look  at  abstraation. Abtation  aims  to  derive  a  concept  map. Const  map  act  from the  t  data  from  the  input  data. At  a  very  general  concept  of  abstation. But  in  the  machining, actually  we  can  consider this  concept  map  is  just  a  model.  A  model. In  other  words,  the  btration  aims  to  derive a  model  actually  from  the  input  data. We  can  have  different  type  of  models. For  example,  actually  we  have some  if  then  rules, if  then  else  rules. This  can  be  a  model. We  can  derive  such  input, der  such  if  then else  rules  from  the  input  data. This  then  rule  is  also  a  model. Machine  linear  model. Also  the  model  can  be  mathematical  equations. Some  linear  equations or  non  linear  equations, and  so  you  can  derive such  linear  equation  equation from  the  input  data. Also  like  a  specific  structure  like  t, classification  tree  or  graph. This  is  also  a  model  form, and  also  sometimes  the  logical  grouping of  similar  observations. Actually  the  last  one  at basically  is  a  cluster  grouping  of  the  data, based  on  the  similarity  of  the  data. So  different  model  forms, derive  from  the  data. Then  this  process  normally is  referred  to  as  a  model  ft. So  we  call  such  a  model  model  fitting. I  actually  know  in  practice,  given  a  problem. What  model  to  use  what  model  to  use? Actually,  this  is  determined by  a  few  factors. First,  actually,  the  type of  problem  to  be  solved. So  whether  this  is a  prediction  problem  or whether  this  is  a  problem or  grouping  the  data. These  are  directly determine  actually  the  model. What  model  we  going  to  use and  also  depends  on the  nature  of  the  input  data. Actually,  the  data  at  I  always  submit  is  very important  in  is  a  raw  material. The  data  sometime  could have  we  normally  know  for  machine  problem. For  each  sample,  we  could  have multiple  features  or  variables. The  variable  could  have  different could  have  different  characteristics. Some  are  continuous  like temperature  of  the  room, the  length  from  this  wall  to  another  wall. The  normally  these  values are  the  real  values. The  variable  is  a  real  valued  variables. And  for  some  of the  variables  also  mentioned  like  gender, gender  is  only  have  two  possible  values. Male,  female,  binary, and  also  for  a  result  of  a  cose. No  is  also  just  categorical. We  have  a  we  have  a  minus, we  have  A  plus, we  have  B  B  min  and  B  plus, and  may  also  C  D  on  a  fiel. These  are  the  different  categories. There's  also  data. The  different  classified  suit actually  the  different  types of  data  the  best. And  the  data  mix like  the  one  I  just  mentioned, has  some  continuous  and  some  of the  t  is  categorical. Then  some  of  the  model not  produce  good  performance. But  in  then  we  need  to  use  some  model. That  could  handle  different  type  of data  like  a  classification  tree. This  is  what  model to  use  actually  is  determined at  about  the  type of  data,  the  nature  of  the  data. Also  the  model  form  is  determined  actually by  actually  the  nature or  the  demean  of  the  problem. I  some  applications  and we  hope  the  model  can  give  a  prediction. But  whether  the  pred  is accurate  or  not  accurate. Of  course,  we  hope  we can  have  accurate  predication. But  even  the  predation  is  wrong, then  the  consequence  is  not disastrous.  No  a  big  problem. For  example,  you  search some  information  on  the  Internet. Normally  Google  provide  you  some  links, and  recommend  you  some  link. Or  sometimes  at,  you  want  to  you want  to  buy  a  sport  shoes, and  then  some  website give  you  some  recommendation. Even  the  recommendation  is  wrong, and  the  consequent  disastrous. And  even  we  don't  actually  Pat, the  model  could  give  us  an  pnation, or  why  this  predication  is  made. Why  I  require  this  pduct  to  you. No  issue  here. But  in  some  applications, this  predication  is  very  critical. A  wrong  result  could have  a  disastrous  consequence. For  example,  the  diagnosis of  disease  like  cancers,  u. This  result  of  prediction  is  critical, and  if  patient  mis, they  do  not  receive any  treatment  until  the  last  stage. Then  the  consequence  is  disastrous. In  this  kind  of  application, maybe  we  hope  the  model not  only  give  us  a  predition, but  also  can  tell us  how  the  prediion  is  made, why  this  conclusion  is  reached. We  hope  the  predition  is  explainable. Then  probably  we  hope the  model  that  could  be  a  if  the  rule. Rule  is  always  understandable  to  us. What  measurement  is  greater  than  something, what  metric  is  higher  than  some  value. That's  the  reason  I  give  this  a  prediction. The  demean  of  the  problem  could actually  determine  what  actual  model  to  use. What  model  to  use  also affect  by  other  factors. For  example,  the  number  of  samples. If  you  have  a  huge  number  of  samples, then  you  can  use  a  complex  models with  more  a  unknown  parameters. But  if  you  just  have  a  few  sample, then  probably  can  only use  a  smaller  model  with a  few  parameters  to  estimate  to  determine. Many  factors  could  determine actually  know  which  model  to  use. Here,  assume  we  will have  select  one  model  like, we  want  to  use  a  linear  model. I  just  for  example, we  have  just  one  feature, one  variable,  that's  x, we  want  to  use  this  x  to  predate  a  web. In  this  model,  so  we  only have  two  parameters  to  two  parameters. As  to  model. No  only  the  formal  model  need  to  be  known, and  also  the  value  of  the  parameter in  the  model  should  be  known. Okay.  Then  to  estimate  the  parameters, is  called  fa  model,  fa  model. Here,  when  the  model  is  chosen, the  next  task  is  t  is  to estimate  the  value  of  the parameter  in  the  model. This  is  called  fit  model,  or  model  fit. This  term  normally  use  statistics. They  call  fit  model  or  parameter  estimation. And  the  machine  line is  often  called  actually  train  or  linear. Model  fete  actually  basically  is  to  actually determine  the  values  or  estimate the  value  of  the  parameters  in  the  model. Here  is  the  c1c2, other  the  parameters  in this  very  simple  model. We  need  to  use  data  to estimate  the  values  of  these  two  parameters. This  is  called  model  fete. I  train  in  mache  lineal. This  is  also  model  fit normally  is  called  train  or  lineal. We  learn  a  model,  we  train  model. Be  machine  lineal with  artificial  intelligence. The  term  need  to  be more  related  to  the  human, L  n  or  train,  we  train  in  turn, we  train  a  student,  we  we  learn. This  term  more  related  to  human, the  machine  near,  we  use  these  terms. But  in  statistics,  so  this is  often  called  fit  model. But  essentially,  it  is  a  process  to determine  the  value  of  the  parameters act  in  the  model. This  is  called  training  or  lane. Also  the  data  used, we  have  the  input  data. The  data  used  to  train  or  lend  this  model, which  is  called  training  data. Here  we  have  this  concept. I  believe  many  of  you  already  know  this. Some  of  you  know very  little  about  the  machine  learning. I  still  introduce this  concept,  training  data. The  data  based  on  which  we  lend  a  model, we  lend  the  value  of the  parameters  in  the  model. This  call  training  data. This  is  the  generalization. We  have  imple  data, which  is  raw  material  from  this  imple  data, so  train  data,  we  land  a  model, not  only  the  form  of the  model  and  also  the  value of  the  parameter  in  the  model. The  land  of  model  is  not  our  altim  goal. Our  ultimate  goal  is  to  apply this  model  to  make predations  for  future  data. This  is  basically  generalization. We  apply  the  model  for  future  data. This  future  data  actually called  the  test  data. The  test  data.  This  cult  generalization. We  apply  the  model  land  from the  train  data  in  the  abstraction stage  to  future  data. This  cult  generalization. This  future  data  is  called  test  data. We  have  training,  we  have  testing. I  think  this  concept  could be  plan  another  contest. For  example,  when  we  started  a  course, in  the  undergrad,  no  normally, you  are  always  given  some  excise  question. You  give  you  some  problems. Then  you  practice,  through practition  you  improve understanding  of  the  concept. This  is  like  a  training  data. You  learn  from  the  excise  questions. Then  what  is  the  lining  outcome? What  is  the  your  performance  of  lane? So  this  will  be  tested  in  the  final  exam. The  question  in  the  exam  paper these  are  the  test  data. Test  data.  Excise  the  train  data. Am  paper  question, a  question  of  the  test  data. This  test  data  is  the  future  prob  futures. This  is  a  maternal  path  in  maternal  process, and  also  for  each  part, what  is  the  rule  of  each  part? The  train  quite  often, we  could  encounter  some  issues. One  issue  is  this,  the  train  model aligned  with  the  train  model is  aligned  with  the  train  data  too  much. Hence  may  not  portray  the  actual  train. C,  we  have  two  figures  in  the  left  hand  side. We  have  some  data  points. Samples.  The  blue, the  blue  points  are  the  tra  samples, tran  data,  and  the  horizontal as  is  a  feature  x. So  these  are  just  for  illustration. In  real  problem,  we  could  have  many  features. Here  we  just  assume  we  have one  feature  that  is  x, and  vertical  x  is  the  web. We  have  in  the  equation  just  now we'll  show  you  in  this  example, we  have  C  Y  c  two  as  the  parameter, and  to  land  the  value  of  these  parameters, C  C  two,  and  we  need  to  have  some  samples. We  need  to  use  multiple  samples. T  here.  Although  we  only  have  two  parameters, but  we  need  to  use  multiple  samples. The  blue  point,  one,  two, three,  four,  six,  seven,  89,  nine  samples. Based  on  the  non  samples  at, we  estimate  the  value  of the  primary  C  I  c  two. This  is  a  linear  equation. Are  the  equation,  as  a  straight  line. You  can  see  this  straight  line. Are  this  line,  a  capture the  trad  the  relationship between  x  and  x  and  y. Of  coe  for  each  data, and  we  can  have  for the  train  data  for  each  of  train  data. Once  the  model  is  obtained, we  can  use  the  model  to predict  the  value  for  the  train  data. But  for  every  train  data, we  can  have  an  area  because we  can  see  the  area  is the  descent  the  line and  not  passing  every  data  point. There  is  a  difference.  This  difference  is a  prediction  area  for  the  train  data. This  area  is  tolerant because  this  area  normally  is  caused by  the  noise,  random  noise. In  other  words,  we  should  not  try  to capture  this  random  noise  and  in  the  model. So  the  one  in the  left  hand  side  is called  the  optimal  model. And  then  the  model  in  the  right  hand  side, you  can  see  no  longer  a  straight  line. Actually,  this  model,  you  can  see  it  is  a  z, is  non  linear,  is a  curve  Curve  is  a  non  linear  model. In  the  right  hand  side,  actually, we  see  the  model  certainly cannot  be  a  linear  model. Be  a  curve. Linear  model  is  straight  line  or plane  or  hyper  planes  in  the  space. But  if  not  here  in  the  two  d  is  a  curve, curve  it  must  be  a  non  linear  functions. I  must  functions. In  this  function,  in  this  model, we  can  see  actually this  curve  we  passing through  every  data  points. In  other  words,  for  every  data  point, the  area  is  close  to  zero. This  is  the  so  called  align with  the  train  data  too  much. Actually  in  such  a  scenario, it  does  not  capture  the actual  trend  underlined  data. It  fit  the  noise. In  the  line  hand  side,  is  called  optimal  ft, in  the  right  hand  side,  this  is  called  ft. O.  These  are  actually  aligned  with the  data  too  much,  too  good. This  is  called  optim. This  problem  should  really know  which  will  try to  avoid  this  opting  problem. This  is  a  very  major  problem  in  me. The  ft  be  by  multiple  issues. Firstly,  from  the  model  itself. Normally,  just  like  this  case. If  the  relationship  is  linear, we  just  need  to  use  a  linear  model, but  now  we  use  a  non  linear  model, which  is  much  more  complex. Here,  we  use  a  more  complex  model, and  then  we  have  a  lot  of normally  a  more  complex  model, we  have  more  unknown  parameters. The  high  complexity  of the  model  I  tend  to  overfit. In  practice,  if  you  are  not  very  sure about  what  model  to  use, try  linear  model  first. Try  simple  solution  first. Only  if  the  simple  solution cannot  solve  the  problem, cannot  actually  produce the  accuracy  as  required. Then  you  think  about  the  more  complex  models. Even  for  non  linear  model, you  can  firstly  think  about the  smaller  non  linear  models  with a  fewer  own  parameters. Then  you  gradually  increase the  complexity  of  the  model, also  the  number  of  parameters  in  the  model, and  then  the  this is  the  one  cost  of  the  problem  over  50. The  model  is  too complex,  more  than  sufficient. Then  another  issue  could  be the  data,  the  data. The  data  at  normally a  overfiten  also  happens when  the  data  is  limited. Limited.  Normally  in the  parameter  estimation, the  number  of  samples should  be  much  more  than the  number  of  parameters. If  the  number  is the  ratio  of  the  number  of samples  to  the  nine  parameters. Normally  the  larger  the  beta  this  ratio. But  if  the  data  is  very  limited, but  the  model  is  very  complex, this  ratio  is  very  small. Then  this  will  tend  to lead  to  the  so  called  fit. You  can  think  about  such  a  scenario. For  example,  I  think  I  will explain  from  this  viewpoint. I  believe  I  remember  the  secondary  school, we  study  something  like  that. We  have  equations.  We  have  one  equation. For  example,  number  of  parameter  in the  equation  and  a  number  of  equations. And  then  the  same  Normally, we  had  a  unique  solution. Remember.  If  the  number  of equation  is  less  than a  number  of  parameter  in  the  equation, then  we  can  have  numerous  solutions. Here  the  ratio, the  importance  of  the  ratio of  the  number  of  samples. The  number  of  samples  just a  number  of  equations. Because  for  each  sample, we  could  list  one  equation  in met  ne.  The  number  of  samples. If  the  number  of  samples, if  this  ratio  is  small, so  we  have  a  lot  of  freedom. Just  like  we  have  one  equation, but  you  have  two  parameter  three  parameters, you  have  numerous  solutions. A  one  plus  a  two equals  one.  What  is  the  solution? We  have  numerous  A  one,  A  two  pairs. We  have  numerous  solutions. These  tend  to  overfit. We  try  to  improve  the  ratio  of  the  number  of samples  to  the  number of  three  parameters  in  the  model. Normally,  the  larger  the  better. How  to  improve  the  rach  of coal  increase  number  of  sin  samples, reduce  the  number  of  unknown perimeters  in  the  model. But  sometimes,  you  cannot have  a  large  number  of  train  samples. In  many  scenarios,  the  train  sample  the  g, it's  not  easy  to  obtain. In  particular,  for  sun, later  we  will  know  that  we need  label  rail  data. The  lab  of  the  rain  data  is  time  consuming, sometimes  it  is  very  expensive. Also  sometimes  because  of  resource, we  simply  don't  have access  to  a  large  number  of  tranal  samples. For  example,  in  medical  study, for  a  certain  disease, in  a  country  like  Sp, how  many  patients  you  can have  for  certain  disease  in  one  year. Maybe  only  limited  number. Here,  you  have  money,  you  have  time. Just  the  number  of  sample  is  so  few, you  cannot  have a  large  number  of  training  samples. So  in  such  a  scenario, what  you  can  do  is  to  reduce  the  number of  three  parameters  in  the  model, reduce  the  complexity  of the  model.  Then  we  can  improve. This  is  very  important.  This  is  the  fitm. We  should  try  to  avoid this  problem  by  increasing  the  number  of ting  samples  and  also reduce  the  complexity  of  the  model. We  always  try  from the  start  from  the  simple  models. Linear  model  first,  if  not  sufficient, then  try  complex  model. Try  less  complex  model  with  few  parameters. I  don't  and  then we  increase  the  complexity  of  the  model. These  are  very  important. We  need  to  try  to  actually avoid  overfitting  problem. Sometimes  at  now  for  a  large  line  model. So  also  see  the  model is  the  overfitting  model. My  maybe. Normally  overfitting  model cannot  generate  as  well. So  these  are  I think  the  main  issue  of the  fitting  model  cannot capture  the  real  trend, cannot  general  as  well. In  particular,  for  the  data outside  the  training  range, and  the  performance  could  be  very  bad. Because  for  the  data,  if  the  data  is  linear, so  future  data  based  on  the  trend, we  can  make  good  predictions. But  if  the  curve  in this  ranges  like  this  curve  like  this  si, you  cannot  imagine  we will  go  outside the  range  of  the  training  data. The  generalization  capability  of the  over  fitting  model  cannot  be  insured. Normally,  it's  very  bad. This  is  why  we  need  to  actually  to  avoid overfitting  problem  because the  generalization  within  outside the  range  could  be  very  bad  for an  overfitting  model.  Okay. Next,  we  look  at  another  scenario. This  scenario  actually is  something  called  underfit. Just  now  in the  first  time  we  called  overfitting. This  is  called  under  underfit. Here  we  still  have  x  and  y. The  true  relationship  between x  is  a  sign  wave. The  sine  wave  actually  you  can  see this  is  a  curve,  a  sign  wave. This  is  a  true  relationship. Now  actually  we  use  a  model, and  act  now  we  use  a  linear  model. Of  course,  this  problem, we  can  see  the  data,  we  can  see the  division,  we  know  there  is  a  curve. But  in  real  scenario, data  is  a  high  dimensional  I  really  don't know  the  relationship is  linear  or  non  linear. We  can  try.  If  we  use  a  linear  model. Then  also  the  data,  blue  point, the  data  blue  point. Then  we  can  a  s  line. The  green  line  is  s  line. We  land  such  a  model. S  line.  But  the  true  relationship between  x  and  y  is  non  linear, is  a  sine  w.  I think  the  main  reason  here  is  that, in  this  range  of  the  t  data  the  blue  point. At  the  relationship  between  x  is roughly  linear  in  the  range. C  see  this  range. From  here,  the  range  or the  x  right  from  here  in  here. In  this  range,  the  x. Normally  I  rough  x  and  y  is  linear. A  linear  model.  But  the  actual  relationship between  x  and  y  is  non  linear. Firstly,  we  use  two  simple  models. The  relationship  is  non  linear, but  we  use  a  linear  model. Certainly  the  linear  model  cannot capture  the  non  linear relationship  between  the  two. The  second  issue  is  this, the  tyson  data  here. The  trail  data  do  not  cover the  range  well,  the  train  data. At  this  part  from here  at  this  point  to  this  point. Is  roughly  linear. But  if  you  with  the  data  point  at, all  the  train  data  even  from  here  and  here, then  this  non  linear,  this  part  actually. Then  even  from  the  tran  stage, we  can  see  a  tree,  this  model cannot  capture  relationship  between  the  two. You  have  the  data  in  that  part. In  other  words,  a  tree, The  Trinal  data  does  not at  the  range  does  not  cover  the  range  well. These  are  very  important  issues. We  see  we  always  try  to acquire  a  more  as  possible  training  data. We  try  to  improve  the  ratio  of the  training  data  to  the  number  of three  parameters  in  the  model, try  to  improve  ratio  data. But  the  data,  more  data  does not  know  that  you  you  have  really  data, then  the  better  one  could be  insured,  not  necessarily. Here,  the  good  data  so  cover the  whole  range.  The  range. The  range  of  the  train  data  is  important. In  the  data  collection,  in  the  game  problem, your  Gamal  problem,  you  need to  build  a  system. The  first  you  need  to  collect  data  because input  data  is  the  first  part of  the  machining  process  you  core  data. You  need  to  be  aware  of  this, the  importance  of  the  range of  the  train  data. If  you  use  f,  the  model would  be  used  for  teal  data, the  teal  data  could  also  in  certain  range. Then  the  tra  data  must  cover  this  range. S  like  this.  If  the  blue  point, the  train  data  does  not  cover  the  range  of the  black  points,  the  testing  data. The  performance  could  be  very bad  because  the  straight  line, the  generalization  is  like  this  prediion, but  it  is  a  curve  going  upward, not  downward  for  the  data outside  the  training  range. You  can  see  the  very  big  difference, big  prediction  area. The  train  data  must cover  the  range  of  the  testing  data. This  is  very  important. Also  this  is  understandable, re  lay  the  foundation  of  machll, either  Exam  or  test  you  neural  networks. But  that  is  not  covered  in  this  code. How  you  can  get a  good  performance  in  the  am  if the  am  papers  question  on  new  networks, not  on  the  foundation  of  the  machll. I  think  this  is  understandable, the  testing  data,  the  train  data should  cover  the  range  of  the  testing  data. That  is  very  important. Some  normally,  they  know the  importance  of  train  data, they're  not  aware  of  how to  improve  the  quality  of  the  train  data. Actually,  the  range  of the  train  data  should  cover  the  range. Of  the  test  data. You  lay  a  model  using the  data  within  this  class  room. This  generalization  of  this  model, could  be  generalized  a  bit, cannot  generalize  to the  whole  NTU  campus  single  pod the  whole  world  normally. Because  the  data  use for  training  on  the  model  is only  within  this  class  room. This  is  I  think  the  importance  of  the  range. Because  you  collar  the  data, you  can  control  the  data  equation  process. You  can  design  how  to  acquire  the  data. From  this  process,  you  from this  require  standard  is  no  get  some  data. You  call  the  source  code  function  and then  to  get  the  model,  not  forward. Even  for  the  data  itself, data  collection  actually  want to  think  about  carefully, to  get  a  good  quality  model. Many  things  like  this  actually maybe  another  example  like  the  curriculum, and  in  different  countries that  have  different thought  about  the  curriculum. In  some  countries  in  primary  school, breadth  bread  broad,  they have  a  broad  curriculum. I  the  University  curriculum be  very  broad  in  year  one  year  two, you  can  and  the  humanity  courses, you  can  lend  the  courses. Then  of  course,  some  engineering  courses. But  then  in  year  four,  year  three, four,  then  you  focus  on  the  engineer  courses. In  general,  the  curriculum  is  very  broad. And  why  broad. Because  in  the  future,  after  graduation, you  study  engineer,  but  not necessarily  your  job  scope  is  just  engineer. Maybe  engineering,  maybe  you  don't  market. You  will  not  communicate. With  people.  This  communication  scale, you  land  in  the  humanity  courses  in the  business  courses  could  be  very  helpful. This  is  a  generalization  broad normally  for  generalizations. In  the  undergraduate  curriculum, you  cover  the  whole  branch  whole  range. Then  in  the  future,  you  can  do  well. But  if  you  have  a  very  narrow  curriculum, but  you  have  a  very  depth  study. Engineering,  electrical  engineering, I  focus  on  trial  engineering. I  do  not  know  nothing  else. Then  in  the  future,  if  you do  the  area  of electrical  engineering,  you  can  do  very  well. But  beyond  that,  probably  you  cannot  do. Now  the  job  market  is  changing  very  fast. You're  really  not  sure  what we  will  do  after  graduation. Based  on  we  have  a  broad  curriculum. This  is  just  like  this. The  train  data  should  be  broad. You  can  think  about  our  future will  just  do  technology. I  will  do  something  else. The  business  marketing  do something  else,  should  be  broad. I  think  you  can  consider  analogy, machine  learning,  and  also  our  daily  life. Analogy.  Then  you  can understand  why  the  train  data should  have  a  broad  range. This  is  some  issue  like  overfit  and  underfit, the  second  critical  underfit. Should  both  be  avoided. Even  we  cannot  avoid  at least  we  should  try  to  actually  reduce. Next,  we  have  a  look  at  the  types  of  machine. Then  the  machine  nu  can  be  classified  into three  categories.  One  is  iden. Another  is  antidiu  another  is  reinforced. Dn  is  also  called  predictable  lineal because  hadnu  aims  to  divide a  model  and  the  model  will  be useful  predictions  to  predict the  outcome  of  future  data. This  call  predictive  models. The  traden  mainly  the class  grouping  of  the  data. Then  reinforcu,  n  to  act on  its  own  to  achieve  a  given  reinforcn. This  diagram  just  show  this. We  can  see  mach three  categories  and  reinforced  minium. Under  the  category  of  chin, we  have  two  main  problems. One  is  the  classification. Another  is  the  region. We  will  study  both  topics, a  problems  in  the  du. Under  the  chu,  there  are  two  topics. One  is  called  ate  cluster, Ao  is  called  association  analysis. But  the  association  analysis is  a  minor  ate  a  topic  and  the  ch. We  will  address  focus  on  the  c, the  grouping  of  the  data. In  this  course  at,  we  studied  classification, regression,  and  the  claim, and  we  don't  study  association  analysis and  the  reinforced  millennia. That  we  look  at  the  shin. Sin  len  in  the  coche we  learn  from  the  pass  pass  information. In  the  Spin  in the  Schill  directly  come  to  this  point, we  have  a  very  important  concept. Theta  t  data  be  labeled. Machine  near,  we  see  the  machine  press, the  first  part  is  the  data  in  the  data. The  data  normally  the  passes per  in  this  passing  periods. This  data  normally  should  be labeled,  should  be  labeled. For  example,  we  want  to  classify to  the  different  objects  in  the  classroom. Now  we  have  different  type  of  object. We  have  tables,  we  have the  screen,  we  have  the  chairs, we  have  the  known  people,  we  have different  objects  in  this  classroom. If  we  want  to  classify to  perform  such  classification  task. We  need  to  provide  a  machine  learning  model, we  need  to  proide  input  data. The  input  data  should  be  we  take  picture. This  input  data  should  be  like  a  pass  data. We  take  the  picture  of  this. We  take  pate  of  this. We  type  of  this  object, we  take  pate  of  the  different  people  here. Also,  we  need  to  tell  the  computer, this  is  a  check.  This  is  a  table. Then  in  other  words,  every  sample, every  picture,  every  image is  associated  with  a  tag. This  tag  actually  is  called  label. Class  label.  Class  label. T  features  for each  feature  is  called  training  data, and  each  train  data  has a  corresponding  class  label. This  label  tells  us which  class  this  semble  belongs  to. Belongs  to  b  category, Blon  belong  to  the  screen. This  just  a  label. Normally,  the  level  is  done  by  humans. The  human  give  the  label. The  t  picture,  then  we  give  a  label, t  picture,  give  a  label. I,  this  label  should  be  given  by  the  Dm  pers. O  for  this  task, everyone  can  get  dem  pers,  you  give  a  label. The  object  recognition. Some  like  in  medical  application. This,  this  is  some  meas  for  a  patient. Then  you  give  a  label,  this  is  abnormal. Then  you  also  have  a  measurement  for another  patient, multiple  measurements,  temperature, body  temperatures,  like  blood  pressures, no  other  measurements. Then  you  give  all  the  abnormal. Normal  abnormal  card  labels. For  every  training  sample, for  every  patient, you  have  some  measurements. For  each  of  these  patient, you  also  have  associated  tech  label. This  ca  label.  Once  the  data  is  labeled, this  data  is  called  labeled  training  data. Of  what  this  label  is  given  by  the  M  pert, by  the  perent  daters. Actually  the  labeling,  sometimes we  see  we  only  have  a  limited  data. In  some  scenarios,  the  data  is  unlimited. But  the  level  of  data  is  limited. Because  the  labeling  of  data  needs the  p.  For  some  application, everyone  can  be  the  M  per. We  can  easily  recognize obj  you  are  them  expert. But  some  application,  the  M per  are  really  p  epirent  doors. For  some  application,  one  no  sufficient, we  need  to  go  we  need to  achieve  the  multiple  as  per, then  we  can  get  a  consensus  about the  label  of  the  sample  like  disease, see  a  certain  patient  have  a  cancer. Normal  scenario  as  they  know  normally the  patient  will  go  to  different  hospitals. They  want  to  confirm  they  want  to  see different  daughters  in  to  confirm. Why?  Because  even  know the  daughter  cannot  make  correct  decisions, cannot  give  the  correct  labeling. We  often,  they  have  a  group  of  S  pers. Each  of  them  perform  some  diagnosis, and  then  they  also  have  discussions. Finally, they  achieve  a  consensus  or  majority  votme, to  say  they  give  a  label  this. You  can  see  for  such  a  data, lib  so  time  consuming  so  expensive. I  involves  a  very  expensive  time of  the  S  pers. This  labeling.  Labeling  also  easy. For  some  task  is  easy, everyone  can  be  as  p.  But  for  some  tasks, it's  require  very  high  scale no  knowledge,  high  level  of  knowledge. This  kind  of  labeling  also  involves multiple  DS  p,  it's  time  consuming. Is  pensive.  Finally  you can  only  have  a  limited  data. This  is  a  label  tranal  data. In  the  Spinal,  we  lend a  model  using  the  label  train  data. Every  train  data  has  a  corresponding  label. These  are  called  class  label. This  diagram  also  show  the  process. We  have  a  label  tranal  data. Then  through  the  sun, we  can  get  a  model,  the  prediction  model. This  model  could  have  had  different  forms, could  have  could  be  a  rules, could  have  could  be  decision, could  be  some  magical  equation, linear  or  non  linear. We  have  such  a  model. Then  the  abstraation  runs from  the  input  data, the  abstraation,  we  can  get  a  model. Then  we  apply  the  model  to the  test  data  to  make  predictions. These  are  the  p  liner. You  can  see  all  the  three  parts in  the  linear  process. But  now  the  data  is  the  inp  data is  a  label  data. Label  data  is  very  expensive. This  is  a  shine  to  make  prediation. Actually,  I  give  you a  few  examples  about  the  prediation. For  example,  we  use  the  model  to predict  the  result  of  a  game, loss,  game  and  predict whether  tum  is  a  malignant  or  banan, whether  cancer  or  no  cancer. Predict  the  price  of  real  estate and  classify  the  test  like  e  mail, spam  e  mail,  or  drunk  email  or  non  spam. This  kind  of  classification. This  kind  of  predictions. And  actually,  here  we  have  four  examples. And  actually,  the  four  examples  belong  to two  different  prediation  problems. The  first  example,  we  predate  the  game. The  game,  the  result  of  game could  have  a  limited  possibilities. We  lose  or  tie. So  three,  and  we predate  tumor malignant  of  only  two  possibilities. The  possible  value  for  the  outcome. We  have  two  values. Then  for  the  spam  test  spam  non  spam. The  predation  results  other  spam  non  spam. The  possible  values  only  two. I  these  three  examples, the  possible  values  is  very  limited. Two  or  three,  or  sometimes even  could  be  larger  but  so  limited. This  kind  of  problem,  a  prediction  problem is  called  classification  classification. This  is  I  think  the  case  one. Predicate  which  category  of  the  class? The  class,  the  outcome has  a  very  limited  possible  values, very  limited  possible  values. This  kind  of  problem  is called  classification  problem. Or  do  the  belong to  anal  prediction,  predication. But  if  the  predicted  results have  very  limited  possible  values. This  problem  is  called classification  problem. But  if  you  look  at  the  example, predict  the  price  of  a  stock. That  the  value  is  a  real  number,  real  value. 121.1  something  in  theory, these  possible  values  is  numerous Even  in  number  of  possible  values is  a  numeric  real  value. This  outcome  is  a  real  value  variable, have  numerous  possible  values. This  problem  actually  so  the  s  two, actually  predicate  a  real  value  variable. This  problem  called  reguation  problem. Just  now  we  see  s and  we  have  two  main  problems, classification,  region. Both  are  predication  problems. Based  on  the  nature  of  the  outcome, based  on  the  number  of  possible  values. So  they  can  put into  classification  or  region. I  think  the  four  examples, so  come  from  the  two  problems. And  classification,  right? Some  more  examples  for  classification, like  image  classification,  image. The  t  pictures,  then  the  chair, these  table,  and  then  something  else. The  cla. The  number  of  possible  outcome limited  here  on  three  maybe. But  this  limited  sometimes  this  number could  be  very  big,  big. For  example,  in  the  image  classification, the  very  famous  data  set  is  called  mint, met  contain  1  million  images from  one  than  classes. This  is  a  class  in  problem. The  number  of  classes  is  1,000. In  other  words,  actually, when  you  make  a  prediction, the  possible  value  of  the  outcome  is  1,000. This  number  is  big,  large  possible  values, but  still  limited,  still  limited,  just  1,000. This  is  still  a  class  in  problem. Predation  of  disease  normal abnormal,  cancer,  non  cancer. These  all  limited  possible  values. Classification,  win  loss  prediion  of  games. Only  two  classes  win  or  loss, Prediion  of  natural  climate  earthquake  flood, recognition  of  100  hundred  writings. This  also  maybe  in  English, you  recognize  the  26  letters  letters. Maybe  Chinese, maybe  this  number  is  much higher,  a  few  thousand. But  still  on  a  classification  problem. Although  the  number  of  classes could  be  a  few  thousand. But  fish  recognition. There  is  also  classic. Although  the  fish  recognition, every  person,  every  person  is  one  class. You  can  build  a  system to  recognize  many  people, these  people  could  be  millions,  even  billion. It's  still  classion  problem. I  then  you  had  EP  pass  through  the  Singapore, the  immigration,  even  you don't  need  to  have  a  passport. You  just  stand  there, take  the  picture  of  your  face, and  then  recognize  you  then  you  go  you  pass. I  then  they  recognize  the  person. You  can  imagine  a  few  million  maybe 610  million  like  passengers passing  through  Sp  immigration  every  year. You  can  imagine  the  number  of  classes. It's  huge  could  be  million  could  be  billion, but  it's  still  a  class  cation  problem. Okay.  So  this  is  clarification. Okay.  Okay.  So  this  is  the  clasifation. And  net  region,  region  basically is  the  outcome  could have  numerous  possible  values. And  the  Some  examples  I think  demand  for cast  and  self  predation  and  press  predation, and  good  predication  in rule  number  of  predation. Although  this  tree  but  this  is no  classification,  they  no  classification. The  the  number  of  students, how  many  you  give  offers  and  the  MS  student. They  have  give  more  offers. But  maybe  only  they have  a  certain  percentage to  accept  the  offer. You  can  predict  how mas  will  accept  the  offer. But  this  is  actually  prediction although  this  number  is  also  limited, but  this  is  a  regression  problem. These  are  the  example  regression. Regression  normally  are the  studied  in  statistics. Classification  normally  studied  in the  machel  in  the  area  of  AI. I  statistics  normally on  the  regression  problems. Okay,  so  I  think  next, actually,  we  have  a  ten  minute  break.  Okay. Next,  we  look  at  the  td  lnu. Sana  is  based  on  label  n  data. But  most  of  the  data  is  unlabeled. If  the  data  is  unlabeled, can  we  still  learn  something  from  the  data? Actually  the  answer  is  yes. We  can  learn  from the  unlabel  we  can act  group  the  group  the  data. The  objective  of  trael  is  to  find natural  grove  or  patents  within  the  data. The  objective  n  natural  grouping  of  the  data. This  chum. Although  the  data  are  not  labeled, but  we  can  still  actually  discover  something in  the  knowledge  or  patent  from  this  data. This  chum This press  annual is  referred  to  a  patent  recovery or  knowledge  discovery  or  patent  discovery. Lens  this  diagram  just shows  what  is  the  natural  group. Actually  pated  every  sample every  top  of  data, every  sample  is  represented by  a  few  features. Normally  the  features  are  put  in  a v.  In  other  words, t  data  is  a  representation. For  example,  for  each  student, we  can  have  your  gender, we  can  have  your  nationality, we  can  have  your  body  weight, or  we  can  have  your  height, we  can  have  your  program  MSC  program. This  all  each  variable, also  called  a  feature,  had  one  value. We  can  put  all  these  values  into  one  vector. In  the  space,  each  vector actually  is  a  data  points. Because  we  can  use  each  of the  features  as  a  coordinate. You  have  coordinate. Here  if  you  have  two  features, feature  number  one,  fie  number  two, then  based  on  the  value of  the  faial  number  one, then  based  on  the  value  of fier  number  two  can  find corresponding  data  points. Every  sample  in  the  space at  treated  data  points. At  the  classroom  with our  objective  to  put similar  samples  within  one  cluster. How  to  measure  the  similarities? We  see  the  two  samp  similar, or  these  samples  are  similar, we  should  put  them  into  different  groups. How  to  measure  the  similarities? These  similarities  could  be measured  by  the  distance. Normally  the  including  distance. In  the  space,  we  can  look  at the  distance  between  the two  between  the  data  points. The  smaller  the  distance, the  more  similar  the two  sample  or  two  data  points. In  this  diagram,  we  can  say, before  we  perform  the  tuneu, we  have  the  data  points  there. After  lineal,  we  put  some  data  points into  one  group,  they  call  class  one. The  some  sample  put in  another  group  called  class  two, class  three,  class  four. This  is  called  a  group. Group  is  the  preset  to put  similar  samples  into  one  group, these  similar  samples  are  put into  different  groups  or  different  clusters. This  is  called  cluster  or  group  of the  data.  You  can  see  this. Of  course,  this  is  for  illustration  purposes. You  can  see  the  datatribution, then  of  course, you  know  how  to  put  them  into  one  cluster. But  the  real  problem, real  data  is  high  dimensional. You  cannot  see  the  datattribution. Now  you  really  don't  have  no  idea which  samples  are  similar  to  other  samples. So  you  really  don't  know.  We  must use  a  metric  to  evaluate, and  then  we  use  some  classroom  orm to  put  them  into  one  group. You  can  see  samples  within the  same  group  are  similar. My  they  are  similar  because they  are  very  close  to  each  other. Then  samples  from  one  group to  another  group,  there  is  some  distance. I  see  some  separation. They  are  very  different  that  means. This  cat  actually  in  a  classroom, the  grouion  of  the  data. This  is  the  anche  nu. This  is  the  main  topic  in  the  chill. Another  topic  in  the  chin association  analysis. The  tree  association  analysis  is more  use  often  using in  the  market  in  the  basket  analysis. Here  we  have  a  lot  of  transition. HE  transition  is  just like  the  item  bought  by  our  customer. Transition  ID  12345, customer  number  one  number two  number  three  number  four, we  see  Sho  number  one  number two  number  three  number  four,  number  five. Then  the  s  showed  the  item  bought. Here  we  also  don't  have  a  label. The  data  is  unlabeled. Of  code,  we  don't  try  to  group  the  data  here. Actually,  we  try  to  actually find  the  association  between  items. We  can  find  a,  for  example, the  transition  number  two, and  then  this  customer actually  bought  the  milk  beers. Then  customer  number  three, chicken  diaper,  and  then  the  beer  chicken. A  diaper  chicken  beer, number  four  and  number  five. You  can  see  when  a  customer  buy  beer, and  they  also  buy  another item  that  is  diaper. This  mean  these  two  items  are  associated, are  linked  These are  called  association  analysis. Not  necessarily  every  time  they appear  at  the  same  time, not  necessarily,  but  look  at the  frequency  among  all  the  transactions. There  are  a  large  proportion of  the  transition  is  actually where  the  two  terms  appear  at  the  same  time. They  are  associated. This  association  analysis. This  is  also  a  linear  discover some  patents  under  the  data. And  the  data  is  unlabeled. I  belong  to  Anu, but  this  is  different  from  the  group  of  data. We  find  some  associations between  the  items  there. This  is  called  association  analysis. This  could  help  the  supermarket,  for  example, they  can  put  the  beers maybe  beside  the  diaper. If  a  parent  by a  diaper  for  the  children  or  buy  the  beer. Most  likely  he  will  buy  the  beer, then  he  will  take  the  beers. These  are  for  marketing  strategy through  this  market  basket  analysis. This  association  analysis. These  are  very  min  or a  small  topic,  and  this  chan. We  will  not  study, but  we  just  need  to  as  there is  one  topic  minor  topic, called  association  analysis,  and  what  job they  do  in  this  asci  association  analysis. But  this  part  is  not  covered  in  this  course. Another  is  reinforced  millennium. It  is  not  covered  in  this  course. But  here,  I  introduced some  concept  reward  and  like,  actually. Actually  these  are  the  different  nun and  also  the  reinforced  millennium. Actually  when  we  solve  a  real  problem. No  necessary  we  have  only  to  use  anual  tn. In  many  scenarios,  actually, we  need  to  use  both. At  the  reinforced  millennium. I  believe  in  the  training  of the  generation  model  like  a  larger  in  model. Actually  they  all  use  the  training  stretches. Su  they  use  the  so  called  serian. They  also  use  the  reinforced  millennium and  tend  to  make  the  answer  response from  the  MM  that could  satisfactory  to  the  users. They  use  the  reinforced  millennium. Okay.  Not  necessarily,  we generally  use  one  lineal  in  real  problem. We  may  use  multiple  linear  strategies, and  in  one  problem. This  is  just  like before  I  talk  about  the  tree, we  can  use  a  first  generation  rubs. You  can  also  integrate  with the  second  generation  of the  A  data  driven  machine. We  can  integrate  both into  a  intelligent  system. Here  again,  maybe  I'll just  give  you  one  example. For  example,  if  you have  a  company  like  a  bank, they  have  a  new  product. They  have  a  new  scheme  for  fix  deposit. They  have  a  high  tree  rate. Then  of  course  the  tree, know  how  to  actually  inform  the  customer. So  maybe  for  every  customer, they  send  a  message  or  they call  the  customer  or they  let  it  to  the  customer. Of  course,  this  is  a  way  to  know which  customer  would  have an  interest  in  the  new  product. Then  they  can  do further  marketing  or  whatever. Treat  a  smarter  way  in  all  like  this. A  smarter  way  is  a  small  group  of  customers. Then  they  contact  the  customer  either  through the  message  or  through  just  the  normal  mail, or  hand  telephone  calls. Then  they  get  a  response  from  the  customer. Some  customer  may  say, I  have  an  interest  in  this. Can  you  tell  me  more? Maybe  some  customers  say I  have  no  interest  in  this. Some  customers  simply  do  not  have  a  reply. You  run  a  letter  to  them,  they  don't  reply, you  message  them,  don't  reply. There  are  three  responses,  three  types, interest  have  interest, no  interest,  then  no  response. From  the  small  group  of  customers know  this  data  now is  labeled  because  they  have  a  response. Every  customer  has  some  features, your  income,  your  gender, your  degree,  which  it  from? What  kind  of  horse  you  are  living? Which  part  of  the  country  you  are  living? What  is  the  family  size? All  of  the  information the  bank  has  this  kind  of  information. This  is  official  vector. Then  you  have  a  label. The  label  is  interested, no  interest,  no  response. Based  on  this  kind  of  label tal  data,  they  can  build  a  model. Then  they  can  apply  this  model to  predict  the  response  of  other  customers. They  can  on  slab  those  part  customer that  predate  with  interest, and  then  they  can  conta  them. This  will  reduce  the  load. You  just  maybe  count  as  a  small  portion a  proportion  of  the  customers to  introduce  the  details  of  the  new  product. This  is  basically  this  part  of  the  sup. Then  another  issue  with  this, you  have  a  very  big  pool  of  customers. Singapore  then  maybe  one  customer  bank, maybe  million  of  customer, China,  bank  could  have  billions  of  customers. How  to  sel  a  few  thousand to  do  this  study  to  B  model. Actually,  we  can  use  anti  num  to select  at  the  customers. Here,  one  we  use  annual  customers. Actually, you  can  randomly  select  some  customers. But  as  I  mentioned  before, the  quality  of  the  model depend  on  the  quality  of  the  data. The  train  data  must  be  representative. If  we  random  select  some  customers, this  commerce  may  not  be  representative of  the  whole  customer  pool. To  build  a  model,  we should  have  customers  that  are  rich, middle  income,  low  income. We  should  have  customers  male  or  female. We  can  have  this  kind  of  different  customers. We  can  have  customer  with  we receive  very  good  education, high  education,  or no  higher  education  degrees. We  should  select  represent  customers. Then  how  to  select  these  represent  customers from  a  huge  po,  billions  of  customers. Actually,  we  can  use  the  Atum. For  example,  if  you  want  to  select 5,000  customers from  the  billions  of  customers. You  can  just  put  through  the  anual  classroom, you  can  put  the  billions  of customers  into  5,000  5,000  groups. Then  in  each  group,  you  select  one  customer. Then  you  finally  the  5,000  customers  from 5,000  groups  could  be  representative. A  model  built  on this  represent  data  could normally  general  as  well. You  can  see  if  this  nu, to  solve  this  problem, we  num  to  a  model  for  predictions. We  use  tu  to  select  samples. We  select  samples.  We  sel  customers. Each  customer  is  one  sample. We  use  atrium  to  select  samples, then  we  use  len  to  build  a  model to  predict  the  response  of  the  customers. This  model  built  from  the  5,000 customers  will  be  applied to  all  the  remaining  customers. Then  we  sel  a  small  group with  a  high  possibility of  a  strong  interest  in  this  product. Then  we  contact  them.  Silenu  and  also  tip. It's  a  myth.  We  can  even  I  already  mentioned, like  a  lira  model  train, set  sodium  and  this  model get  a  pre  trained  model. And  how  the  lira  model could  ask  your  question. You  as  que  as  you  well. This  basically  is  a  train, reinforced  millennium. Shu  also  the  reinforced  millennium. Yeah.  That's  actually  like an  application  of  machlln. Bank  of  course  at  engineering  background, we  can  see  a  lot  of  application  of  machnu, and  engineering  in  scene, but  actually  dis  or  daily  life. These  actually  are  some  applications like  in  banking  fineness. Actually,  my  sign  two  sides working  in  this  industry,  they  use  machllne. They  are  business  people  but they  use  mache  almost  every  day. The  banking  finance,  actually they  use  the  Mcelln. Also  in  the  insurance  in the  health  care  all  these  Some  areas, maybe  we  are  not  familiar  with, but  they  all  actually  use  machllne. The  language  tools  in  Macelln. I  think  nowadays, the  most  popular  line coming  language  actually  is  a  pattern. For  mechll,  they  have  this  sens  tall  boss. I  think  in  the  seven  actually I  give  you  release  the  assignment. I  gree  some  data,  ask  you  to  train  a  model. Actually,  I  think  you  can  do  in  two  ways. Firstly,  I  think  lecture, we  will  talk  about  the  design  of the  classified  ficha linear  achievement  analysis or  supports. Actually,  we  have  some  formula, you  can  write  a  program  to implement  this  through  implementation, certainly  you  will  enhance your  understanding  of  this  classifies. Another  way  that  actually,  you  can  just actually  use  the  functions. Use  that  function.  Of  course, you  write  the  program,  you  also use  the  patent  to  write  the  program. I  assume  if  you  don't  know  this, you  must  learn  because machine  len  is implemented  through  the  programming, you  must  know  lend  the  program. You  know  you  can  use  the  path, you  can  also  use  the  toll  box, you  can  write  your  own  program  to implement  to  get  the  permit  of  the  model, and  then  use  a  model  to predications  on  the  talent  data. You  can  also  call  the  functions actually  in  the  to box  and  to  train  the  model. Then  you  input  your  testing  data to  the  model  to  make  predictions. These  actually  a  pattern  to  box. These  are  sense  actually  the  lane. Machine  linear  to  box. Then  I  think  the  industry normally  the  fine  or  the  business, the  R  R  R  is  also  a  high  level  language. Then  at  b.  I  think  for  engineering  people, I  think  familiar  with  Mb. We  all  have  the  per  of  Mb. For  me,  actually  I  use  Mb  as  from  90  1989. So  more  than  30  years. Yeah,  40  years. But  I  don't  know a  pathn  you  are  a  young  guide, you  work,  you  need  to  use  the  pathn. If  you  don't  know,  I  s  you  len  pathn  For  me, I  think  my  live  is  sufficient.  Okay. I  think  the  language.  Of  course, C,  I  know  other  language. I  know  Java,  I  use I  want  to  write  my  own  program. You  see  language  to  implement the  line  or  training  of  model. No  problem.  Just  do  that. I  just  give  some  examples. But  you  can  use  this  high  level  language. This  high  level  language can  reduce  your  load. Net,  we'll  talk  about  the  issues, I  me,  and  so. I  did  the  student  I know  a  lot  of  international students  from  different  countries, and  also  you  can  actually observe  the  progress  of adoption  of  the  AA  techniques. Some  countries  at  the use  this  very  extensively. Some  countries  actually  are care  in  using  the  EA. So  the  different  countries  have different  laws  and  regulation on  the  use  of  AI  techniques. So  we  need  to  understand  this. And  when  we  use  AA,  we  have  some  issues. Then  the  first  is a  privacy  issue.  Privacy  issue. Okay.  And  so  like, you  know,  In  machina  normally  we  sunial, we  need  to  get  some  data  like in  medical  application, and  we  want  to  build  a  model  to predict  whether  a  person have  a  certain  disease  or  not. Of  course,  we  need to  have  the  historical  data. We  need  to  collect  some  samples, patient  measurement. Some  of  the  patient  has  certain  disease. Some  of  the  patients  do  not  have the  disease,  just  a  healthy  people. We  should  have  the  samples  from these  two  different  categories, normal  abnormal. Of  course,  each  patient  have  a  name. This  name  is  a  confidential. If  we  use  this  data, this  name  certainly  should  be  removed. We  should  not  relied  the  data to  anyone  that  has  a  name. This  actually  is  a  privacy  issue. So  Actually  of  course  the  name  in  the  lineal, this  name  is  very  specific  to  a  person. It  does  not  show  any  pattern. Even  if  there  is  no  privacy  issue, we  also  should  not  use  the  name  as a  feature  in  the  classified  design. But  this  is  just  one  of  privacy. In  the  past,  in  the  past  few  years, maybe  the  people  are  more  more  appreciate the  convenience  brought  about by  the  AI  techniques. But  nowadays  are  treated more  and  more  people  are aware  of  this  privacy  issue. Be  at  we  use  apps, actually,  where  you  spend  the  money, how  much  you  spend. At  where  have  you  been  today all  cat  by  the  camera  recorded  by  the  Apps. This  actually  information  is  confidential. This  should  not  be  without the  agreement  of  the  users. This  data  should  not  be used  to  build  your  models. We  should  be  aware  of  the  privacy  issues. This  is  one  issue.  Another  issue with  this,  Machine  linear, we  lay  a  model  and  the  model  can  make predications  and  we  need to  be  aware  of  the  performance  of  the  model. At  the  beginning,  I  already say  the  performance  of the  model  depend  on  the  quality  of  the  data. Sometimes  also  we can  have  overfitting  problem, we  can  have  underfitting  problem. In  other  words,  ate, the  model  you  train  may  not  be  able to  produce  reliable  outcomes. The  predication  may  not  be  reliable, may  not  be  trustable. Always  at,  we  should exercise  our  human  judgment. Whether  you  should  trust or  you  should  not  trust, I  think  we  should  as  our  human  judgment. We  should  be  aware  of  the limitations  of  the  mache  linear. Because  the  model  quality I'm  not  determined  by  the  data. Although,  we  we  are aware  of  the  importance  of  data, and  then  we  best  to  get a  diverse  data  cover  a  wide  range. But  there  are  some  issues  we  could  be  missed. That  could  be  missed  and  not  consider, and  then  the  model actually  build  on  this  data. We  actually  produce  reliable  results on  the  future  new  data. We  must  be  careful when  we  use  these  kind  predications. In  particular,  in  some  dems wrong  prediction  could produce  disastrous  consequences. These  are  the  issue we  should  be  aware  of  the  limits, the  reliability  of  the  machal  models. If  we  use  this  without  consideration, sometimes  we  can  create the  adverse  reactions. Okay.  I  also  know we  have  some  legal  legal  issues and  ethical  issues. So  like  regulation,  privacy, mitigation  of  bias,  transparency  relevance. For  the  model,  could  have  bias, and  this  bias  could  be biased  against  the  risk  of  the  person. Recognize  and  for  the  larger  ger  model. The  b  issues  already don't  call  the  attention  of  the  researchers. For  example,  if  you  ask  something,  see, normally  a  like  people. Normally  what  Chinese  eat, for  example,  what  food  Chinese  eat? Maybe  the  answer  from the  lagra  model  because  they  train the  data  from  the  data  on  the  web. The  majority  maybe  is  a  certain  race. Maybe  when  they  answer  the  question, they  answer  the  food, maybe  from  one  certain  race,  no  other  races. This  answer  is  cons  as  a  bias  bias. And  not  consider  the  whole, only  consider  certain  groups  of  people. The  answer  is  the  bias. We  should  be  aware  of  these  issues. These  are  ethical  issues and  also  we  have  legal  issues. I  now  in  the  AA in  recent  years  actually  when failed  is  called  the  governance  of  the  AA. They  tried  to  get  some  frameworks. If  you  use  AA  techniques, you  need  to  follow  these  rules. Privacies,  all  this. You  also  need  to  give  options. For  example,  nowadays  at, no  we  have  the  apps  for  banking. Almost  a  we  can  do  everything  in  the  apps. But  for  some  old  people, they  are  not  familiar  with  the  smartphone. They  cannot  use  at the  apps  at  to  handle  all  the  problems. We  must  actually  have the  physical  counters  in  the  bank. That  physical  counter  could  serve those  small  group  of  people  who cannot  use  at  AI  techniques. A  technique  actually,  the adoption  of  the  techie  should follow  certain  governance  framework. We  have  the  legal  issue, we  should  be  aware  of the  legal  issues,  ethical  issues. This  is  the  are  some  issues  actually, we  should  be  aware  of  actually. So  when  we  use  the  AA  techniques. Okay.  Yeah.  This  will  give  you  a  summary. This  summary  like  different  linings  and also  the  three  different  parts in  the  machine  lining  process, the  data,  the  whole  data affect  model affect the  generalization  capability  of  model. I  always  emphasize  the  importance  of  data. The  data  indeed  is  very  important. Although  this  normally  about  much, but  I  know  it's  very  important. Obs  to  fit  a  model. Through  some  training  samples, generalization  is  just  to apply  the  model  for  future  data. Also,  we  have  different  type  of  machine, She  chum,  reinforced  minium. But  our  focus  is  she  had  and  chum. Also  application  areas, know  the  competing,  languages,  to  bs. So  issues  on  ethical  issues, privacy  issues,  the  legal issues,  all  the  issues. We  should  be  aware  of  these issues  when  we  adopt AI  techniques  to  solve real  word  problems.  Okay. Okay. I  think  that's  all.  I  think  if the  net  know  like  ten  to  15  minutes  is  Q  A. So  you  have  queries,  you  can  just stay  here  and  welcome  to  ask  me. Okay.  That's  all.  Yeah.  Thank  you  very  much. Thank  you.  Thank  you.
