Okay.  I  is  630. Let  us  begin  our  lecture. And  I  think  last  week, we  had  a  introduction. So  our  introduction  entails the  aspects  of  problem solving  in  general,  right? I  mentioned  a  few  times  that  it is  always  useful  to understand  what  you  are  dealing  with. Okay.  Hence  we  look at  what  problem  solving  was  all  about. So  I  can  do  a  quick  recap and  the  recap  is  actually  very  simple. So  essentially  our  whole  approach, or  what  we  want  to  do  is to  look  at  GA  as  a  problem  solving  technique. So  we  believe  that  there's  potential, it  can  be  a  very  elegant and  very  powerful  problem solving  technique,  specifically for  optimization. And  if  you  look  around, GA  has  been  known  to  solve many  complex  optimization  problems. And  many  of  it  surpass  those of  traditional  techniques,  right. So  basically  GA,  a  problem  solving  technique. And  for  now,  essentially  what  is  GA, It  is  a  nature  inspired  method. What  does  nature  inspired  means. It  means  that  the  technique  itself  is  based on  the  metaphor  of nature  based  on  what  is  happening, what  you  observe  as  happening  in  nature. In  particular,  we  look  at  the so  called  the  natural  evolution, the  survival  of  the  fits, adaptation,  and  so  on. Now,  we  solve  problems. It  is  always  good  to  understand  how we  may  describe  or  characterize  our  problems. We  look  at  four  different  tracts on  how  we  classify  problems. We  look  at  the  black  box. We  look  at  the  black  box. Black  Box  is  a  form  of input  model  and  output  IMO. So  essentially,  you  have  input. You  have  a  model,  and  you  have  your  output. So  based  on  these  three  entities  here, when  one  of  it  is  missing, it  gives  you  a  characterization one  particular  characterization of  participation  of  the  problems. For  example,  if  input  is  you're  looking  for the  input,  what  are  you  doing? Okay?  So  you're  doing  your  optimization. If  your  model  is  missing, just  like  what  you  always do  in  machine  learning, like  a  neural  network,  the  model  is  missing. So  you  want  to  look  for  the  model we  solve  for  the  model. So  that  would  be  your  modeling. And  then  the  third  one  is the  output  output will  constitute  your  simulation. All  right.  So  that's  a  black  box. On  the  other  hand,  we  can  also consider  in  terms  of  the so  called  the  landscape, the  solution,  you  know, the  solution  landscape. So  we  want  to  know  how big  a  search  space  you  are  looking  at. So  that  would  be  treating it  like  a  searching  problem. You're  searching  for  a  solution that  meets  the  requirements. So  you  will  consider  like your  size,  dimensions,  and  solve. That  would  be  another  way  to  classify. We  consider  problems  as  one of  involving  optimization  as well  as  satisfying  constraints. Many  problems  are  like  that. Many  problems  involves  so called  optimizing  a  certain  criteria, which  we  call  the  objective  function. For  example,  you  try  to  minimize the  objective  value or  you  try  to  maximize  the  objective  value. That  is  from  the  perspective  of  optimization, Many  problems  includes  constraints. Many  practical  problems are  usually  involve  constraints. You  have  constraints  and  optimize so  called  you  have  constraints  to  satisfy, and  then  if  you  have objective  function,  there's  an  optimization. And  constraints  I  say  it  earlier  on. Constraints  usually  of  two  types. One  is  of  hard  constraints, the  other  is  of  soft  constraints. Hard  constraints  are  constraints which  must  be  satisfied. If  it  is  not  fulfilled, it  renders  the  solution  as  infeasible or  invalid,  or  not  feasible. So  there's  heard  constraints. So  it  must  be  fulfilled. Well,  soft  constraints, constraints  they  are  there. But  if  the  soft constraints  are  not  satisfied, the  solution  is  still  feasible. It's  kind  of  like  the  preferred, you  know,  the  preferred. Many  of  constraint  satisfaction  problem set  formulated  in  such  a  way that  you  try  and  work on  the  heart  constraint. Make  sure  the  heart  constraints is  so  called  fulfilled, then  you  work  on  the  soft  constraints  and satisfy  as  many  soft  constraints  as  possible. Then  that  will  be  the  so  called  equate to  the  quality  of  the  solution. The  last  one  is  particularly  interesting. This  is  when  we talk  about  the  complexity of  the  problem,  the  ness. NP  refers  to  non  deterministic  polynomial. The  term  no  determinic  polynomial is  the  word  non  deterministic,  right? But  it's  polynomial. It's  like  a  situation  where,  you  know, I  know  I  I  just  don't  know  what the  polynomal  bound  is to  solve  that  particular  problem. In  essence,  we're  talking about  the  difficulnes  of  the  problem. So  if  you  know  a  problem  is complex  or  difficult  of  the  NP  nature. Would  you  try  and find  a  deterministic  algorithm to  work  on  a  problem?  Would  you? Or  would  you  use  a  enumerative  approach  to work  on  a  problem  if  you know  the  problem  is  NP  art? Chances  are  you  won't  because  you already  have  an  understanding  of  what  NP  is. I  remember  the  scenario  I  I  described  to  you towards  the  end  of  last  lecture about  this  gentleman, you  know,  walking  to  the  boss  office,  right? You  can  show  that, this  problem  is  not  solved. You  can  fire  him,  you  know, but  you  won't  be  able  to  find anybody  to  do  it. So  there's  a  MNP  hard  kind  of  problem. Now,  here's  a  question. If  you  know  it's  MP  art, you  know  it's  not  solvable. What  do  you  do?  What  do  you  do? That's  why  you  study  GA. That's  why  you  study  GA  GA is  considered  as  approximate  approach. Approximate  meaning  is  not deterministic,  stochastic. You  will  find good  solution  within  reasonable  time. Not  guarantee  for  optimality, but  chances  are  you'll find  very  good  solution. If  the  problem  is  not  too  complex, you  may  even  hit  the  so called  the  global  optimum. So  that's  a  whole  motivation, one  of  the  strongest  motivation  for approximate  techniques like  your  genetic  algorithm. Okay? And  that  is  basically  what  we  did. And  we  also  began  to  look  at so  called  the  origin  or  the  motivation, how  GA  comes  about. So  we  look at All  right. The  whole  motivation  inspiration comes  from  the  evolution. All  right.  So  we  went through  this  slide  so  very  quickly. We  know  we're  in  a  finite  resources. So  called  we  live in  a  finite  everything  we  want, we  need  fins  finite. And  I  always  say,  you  know, if  it  is  infinite, there's  no  problem  to  solve. Okay.  If  there's  no  limitation on  resources  and  all, there's  no  problem,  right? You  won't  be  motivated  to  solve any  problem  or  find better  ways  to  improve  things. And  yet,  the  fact  remains  that  there's this  in  nature  is  all  hard  wired.  Right? Life  forms  geared  towards  reproduction. Reproduction  means  to  reproduce  more. Why  why  the  reproduction? Because  survival  of  the  species. Okay?  The  propagation  of  the  species. So  you  need  some  kind  of  selection,  right? And  so  selection  becomes a  basis  for  reproduction. All  right.  And  So all  this  is  here  in  nature.  All  right. Uh  What  is  evident in  nature  is  there  is this  so  called  diversity,  you  know,  right? Diversity  means  to  have  very  different  forms. You  want  diversity  in  nature. Now,  what  is  the  diversity? Is  the  diversity  of the  so  called  traits  the  physical  traits. That  traits  we  say the  phenotype  phenotypic  traits. So  it  refers  like  the  behavior, the  physical  appearance,  and  all, those  are  the  phenoty  phenotypic  traits. So  the  general  rule  is  very  simple. These  traits  must  lead to  higher  chances  of  reproduction because  that's  the  goal  in nature,  right  to  reproduce. Therefore,  these  traits, preferably  should  be  traits that  favor  or  enhance the  chance  of  reproduction. That's  basically  so called  the  main  motivation. The  selection  will  be  based  on the  so  called  the  positive  traits  that  is exhibited  by  the  so  called  the  coding. Essentially  what  evolution  tells  us  is  this. You  have  a  population. You  have  a  population  and This  population  has  many different  because  there  are  many  individuals. Now,  the  fact  is  that  the  population is  based  on  the  populations, I  mean  it's  based  on the  sampling  of  many  individuals. Now,  give  this  a  mental thought,  a  mental  experiment. You  know  how  to  do  hill  climbing. You  know  hill  climbing. If  you  use  a  hill  climbing  technique, basically, when  you  are  doing  you have  one  solution  and  then  you  just keep  on  improving  upon  solution. But  in  GA,  you  work  with  a  population. Population  means  many, for  example,  100  individuals. When  you  have  100  individuals, it's  like  a  sampling  of  100  different  space. Imagine  your  search  space. You  have  100  individuals that  represent  the  sampling. That's  why  a  lot  of  time  people  say  GA is  a  parallel  search. And  when  they  say  GA  is  a  parallel  search. What  they  mean  is  that  when  it  does  a  search, it  does  it  in  parallel. Right? But  of  course,  when  you simulate  it  on  your  computer, your  computer  is  just  a  sequential  machine. But  the  nature  of  the  algorithm  is that  it  is  designed  as  a  parallel  algorithm. In  principle,  if  I  want  to  parallelize  it, I  can  have different  process  each  one  processing, you  know,  one  individual. But  then  of  things are  a  little  bit  more  complicated  than  that. You  got  to  think  about  the  policy  on  how  to exchange  information between  the  different  computers,  right? Okay. Selections  are  based  on  individuals. There's  a  so  called  the  fitness or  the  figure  of  merit, we  select  the  individuals. To  this  selection  here, we  create  that  variations.  The  variations. We  want  to  create  through  some  operations, we  create  all  those  variations. Essentially  what  you're  saying  is the  selection  works  on  the  individuals, but  the  population  when  you talk  about  evolution  is a  evolution  of  the  population  as  a  whole. It's  not  correct  to  say  that individual  evolved. It  is  not  correct  to  say. It  is  not  correct  to  say, the  whole  unit,  which is  a  population  evolves. And  of  course,  evolution  in  nature, the  time  scale  is  in  terms  of  years. Hundreds  of  years,  thousands  of  years. That's  a  time  scale.  But  when  we  simulate  it, of  course,  you  know,  it's  only  natural. Our  time  scale  is based  on  the  computing  time  scale. Like  milliseconds  for one  generations  100  generations  is  1  minute. So  there's  a  so  called  the  perspective in  terms  of  time  scale,  right? That  is  on  the  natural  evolution  side. You  see  how  the  forces  that  work, the  survival  of  the  fitters, the  selection,  reproduction  and  so  on. On  the  other  front,  right? We  look  at  genetics, just  to  get  an  idea, how  we  tap  on  genetics to  draw  inspiration  on  how we  so  called  design  our  algorithm. We  all  know  DNA. So  DNA  is  a  genetic  material they  make  up  living  things,  right? They  are  the  chromosomes. They  are  the  strands,  you  know. So  the  DNA,  made  up  of  genes. The  whole  the  whole  construct of  the  DNA,  right? We  call  the  genotype. The  genotype  would  determines the  phenotype,  the  phenotype, the  expression  expression  on how  it  interacts  with  the  real  world. So  the  traits  of  genes  genes, the  expression  of  it  in  phenotypic  traits, right  the  physical  manifestation. Small  changes  in  the  genotype  need the  small  changes  in  organism. So  genes  encoded  in  strands  called  DNA. We  need  a  DNA,  the  genes, and  some  other  facts  about  genetics, like  having  copies,  which  you  call  diploid, and  the  genetic  materials. The  whole  genetic  materials, we  say  the  genome. Typically,  within  the  species, most  of  the  genetic  materials  is  the  same. Here's  a  simple  fact. DNA  gives  us  an  inspiration  how  to code  GN  is  a coding  for  life  form,  living  things. Now  from  here  we  draw  inspiration maybe  in  our  evolutional  algorithm, we  can  also  use  this  kind  of inspiration  to  design  our  coding. This  is  exactly  what  we  are  doing. Later  on,  you  look  at  how  from this  so  called  genes  and  genome  here. That  is  the  blueprint that  helps  us  to  design  in  our  algorithm, how  we  solution  to  the  problem. Now,  along  with  it also  based  on  this  coding  here, genetics  also  gives  us motivation  or  so  called  the  guide  on  how  we would  create  the  so  called  duplication or  operations  that alter  the  genetic  material. In  principle,  one  of  it  would  be  mutation. Mutation  basically changes  in  the  genetic  material. Due  to  replication  error. So  Mutation  is  random.  It  is  random. What  happened  is  it just  when  you  duplicate  it. Sometimes  nature  makes  little  error, right,  which  is  called  mutation. So  because  of  u  mutation has  nothing  to  do  with  a  parents. It's  just  a  random  occurrence. So  there's  no  inheritance  in  play  here. So  Some  effects,  as  you've  seen, it  can  be  good, it  can  also  be  bad. All  these  duplication  repetitions, that's  a  form  of error  checking,  the  redundancy. So  essentially, we've  seen  that  in  evolutionary  computing, the  whole  metaphor  is  about  based  on  natures Evolution  blueprint. It's  about  competition,  it's  about  selection, because  of  resources  limited, there's  a  competition  to  fight  for  resources. On  top  of  that,  also, who  gets  more  resources? Who  is  more  advantages? Well,  nature  accord,  what  we  call  fitness. Fitness  in  the  sense  that  individuals  exhibit traits  that enhance  the  chance  of  reproduction, that  would  be  that  would constitute  having  higher  fitness. And  so  that's  essentially how  the  blueprint  in  nature,  okay? And  we  draw  this  inspiration  in  our  algorm. So  EA  falls  into a  category  of  generate  and  test. We  work  with  population. And  then  we  just  generate all  those  individuals, is  like  testing  out  different  samples, and  then  we  test  it. The  way  after  we  test  it, based  on  some  fitness, we  drive  the  algorithm to  let's  say  certain  criteria. Mainly  the  fitness. Okay.  Let's  take  a  look  at  let's  go  down  to the  actual  framework  of  what  GA  or  EA  is. From  here,  we're  going  to  do  this. We'll  look  at  what  EA  is  all  about. Then  we'll  look  at  some of  the  main  components  that make  up  genetic  algorithm, like  representation, evaluation,  population, and  then  selection  as  well as  the  two  variation  operations that  is  recombination  and  mutation. Today,  I  would  spend  a  bit  of  time  to use  the  eight  quin  problem and  show  you  how  to  formulate  it. Not  just  in  terms of  understanding  in  principle, but  how  do  you  actually  put it  in  model  or  equations, such  that  you  can  actually  code  it  and  solve it  as  a  program. Then  subsequently  after  the  e  quin, we  look  at  the  so  called  have a  broad  understanding  on  what  EA, how  EA  stands  out from  the  perspective  of  optimization. Let's  go  to  our  first  stp. Let's  take  a  look  at  the  whole  framework  to begin  our  understanding  on your  evolutionary  algorithm. The  whole  EA  framework  is  very  simple. It's  extremely  simple. As  you  can  see  from  here, the  three  blocks  here. I  constitute  population, parents,  and  then  offspring. You  have  three  entities, population,  parents,  and  offspring. In  between  the  entities, there's  a  process  of  transformation. Transformation  like the  population  to  parents. The  transformation  process, there  are  two  types, one  is  of  selection. Selection  the  meaning  of  selection means  you  decide  based  on  certain  criteria. Later  on,  you  see  it  actually  is a  fitness  it  drives  a  selection. As  in  nature,  the  fitter  ones has  a  better  chance  of  being  selected. There  are  two  aspects  here. One  is  a  selection  parent  selection from  the  population  to  the  parents. And  Then  the  other  selection is  so  called  what  we call  the  survivor  selection. Survivor,  who  survives  into the  new  generation  and  then continue  with  the  evolutionary  process? Two  aspects  of  selection. Parent  selection,  that's  for  reproduction, and  the  second  one,  survival  selection. Now,  because  we  keep our  population  size  constant. When  you  reproduce,  you  will  produce  more. Together,  the  pool  of offspring  and  the  parents  usually may  exceed  the  constant  population that  we  have  decided  on. Therefore,  we  must  institute  some  form  of selection  criteria  of  who to  survive  to  the  new  population. That's  a  selection. Now,  this  recombination  quite often  is  a  crossover  and  a  mutation. What  happens  in  this  so  called  transformation here  from  the  parents  to  the  offspring? The  main  motivation  is to  create  that  variation. We  want  to  create  that  kind  of  variation. We  create  that  kind  of variation  to  a  process, call  in  this  case,  recombination. It  is  a  form  of  reproduction. We  reproduce. Reproduction  or recombination  usually  involves  parents. You  reselect  the  parents and  usually  based  on  the  fitness  criteria. Then  based  on  the  fitness, you  select  the  parents  and  then  use the  parents  for  crossing over  or  reproduction. Chances  are  the  parents  will  be fit  because  they  already  undergone  selection. Another  thing  is  that  recombination usually  involves  two  or  more  parents. This  is  where  learning  takes  place. Learning  takes  place  in  the  form  of  the  p, like  two  or  more  parents. I  two  p  the  two  parents contribute  to  the  traits  of  the  offspring. That's  your  recombination. On  the  other  hand, mutation  is  a  little  bit  different. Mutation  is  some  random  occurrence. It  just  happened  in  random. Then  you  will  wonder,  why do  we  need  that  kind  of  landless? You  see  in  optimization, especially  when  you  look  at  the  landscape, it  goes  what  we  say,  the  multimodal  type. Many  of  it  are  false  or  local  optimum. I  think  most  of  you  are  familiar  to a  certain  extent  familiar  with  optimization. When  you  have  a  so  called  a  landscape with  multiple  peaks, many  of  it  are  false  peaks or  f  peaks,  which  are  suboptimal. Quite  often,  our  algorithm  get  stuck  at the  so  called  false  speed  or  local  optimum. Now,  if  everything  is so  called  through  your  recombination  and  all, you  won't  jump  out  of  that  because recombination  is  designed  such that  it  keeps  what  it  has, which  is  good  and  then  continue  with  it. You  won't  get  out  of  the  false  speed. Therefore,  mutation  is  random. Every  so  often,  you just  inject  some  random  material. In  optimization,  chances  are there  is  a  good  mechanism  that can  shake  it  out  of  so  called  local  optimum. These  are  the  three  entities. Now,  along  the  way  also, we  look  at  the  whole  the  starting  point, usually  that's  your  initialization. You  initialize  it.  In  general, there  are  two  tracks  to  approach. One  is  just  random. If  you  don't  know  anything  better, you  just  randomly generate  the  initial  population. Although  it  may  not  be  of  good  quality, never  mind  because  as  it  evolves, it's  going  to  get  better  and  better. That's  your  initialization. Is  there  another  way? Many  GA  resorts  to  many  GA, a  successful  GA,  also  use  what  we  call a  priority  knowledge  to create  that  initial  population. Meaning  to  say  during  initialization, I  want  to  generate  good  quality  population. Yeah.  Number  one  is  to  just  random. Another  reasoning  line  of  reasoning? Can  I  generate  better  ones? Based  on  some  knowledge, I  know  about  the  problem, I  generate  good  initial  population. You  certainly  can. But  then  the  real  question  is, is  it  I  it  bad? Is  it  good  for  the  algorithm  as  a  whole? Logically,  it  should  be  better,  isn't  it? You  start  out  with  better  ones  and  you should  evolve  towards  better  one, or  even  better  ones? But  in  practice,  that  is  not always  the  case,  right? What  could  be  the  reason? You  see,  Logically, if  I  generate  better  ones, if  I  initialize  with  good  ones, I  should  get  even  better  ones. Logically  speaking. But  if  you  consider  from a  viewpoint  or  optimization. You  talk  about  global  optimization. When  you  initialize  based  on some  a  priori  notion  or  knowledge, so  you  are  restricting  yourself  into certain  space  in  your  solution  landscape. When  you  restrict  yourself, then  chances  are  you will  search  around  there. The  quality  is  generally  good, but  you  may  not  hit  the  global  optimum, but  you  may  be  very  far from  the  global  optimum. In  essence,  using  good  quit initial  quality  solutions  can  be good  if  you're  more  interested in  so  called  local  optimum  solutions. But  if  you  are  truly  truly doing  global  optimization, you  want  a  global  optimum. It's  not  usually  not  a  good  idea  to  restrict your  initialization  towards just  only  good  solutions  to  begin  with. And  then  termination. Termination  basically  when  to  terminate. It  cannot  run  forever. Different  ways  to  terminate. Most  logical  when  you  hit the  solution  you  want,  you  terminate. So  you  have  a  test  condition. That's  what  you  need.  You  terminate. Or  it  could  be  based  on a  certain  number  of  iterations. Is  it  run  it  for  10,000  iterations, 100,000  iterations, and  then  stop,  and then  the  best  solution  will  be  accepted, right  or  you  accept  the  best  solution. Different  ways  we  can actually  implement  all  this. Again,  bottom  line. The  whole  concept,  the  whole  framework is  very  elegantly  simple. That  is  a  beauty  of  genetic  algorithm. I  think  if  you  see  a  couple at  least  one  example, you  begin  to  see  GA the  last  20  years  after  it  was first  created,  it  was  so  popular. Suddenly,  everything  was  about  GA, you  know,  GA  for  solving  this, GA  for  solving  that  and  so  on. Okay. If  you  are  more  into  pseudo  codes, or  you're  more  of  a  programming  type,  right? So  this  is  the  pseudo  code of  how  you  would  program  it. So  you  initialize, and  then  you  evaluate  why  you need  to  evaluate  because  you  need  to distinguish  which  individual is  good,  which  is  bad. Then  you  have  a  loop  here. That  loop  will  be  the  same  as this  iterations  that  goes from  population  parents  and  offspring. That  is  a  loop  selection of  parents,  recombine,  mutate, and  then  evaluate  a  game, and  then  select  individuals for  the  next  generation  that  survival. Quite  easy  to  see  how your  general  implementation  of a  GA.  And  I  think  quite  often  that is  enough  to  get  somebody  started  on  how  to cope  because the  whole  principle  becomes  very  clear, on  what  needs  to  be  done.  All  right. And  So  you  have  seen. From  that  framework,  the  three  blocks  there. You  see  population,  right? You  see  the  populations  of individuals,  there  are  three  classes. One  is  so  called  our  general  population, the  current  population, and  then  you  have  your  parents, and  then  you  have  your  fitness. Sorry.  What  did  I  say? Okay.  Current  population,  and  then  offspring. And  each  of  the  individuals are  accorded  fitness  value. We  have  variation  from the  parents  to  the  offspring. This  variation  are  two  types, the  recombination  type,  which  is  a  crossover, and  then  the  mutation. It  is  of  variation  type because  it  creates  variation. It  creates  the  variation. Then  selection  two, we've  seen  two  tracks  of  selection. One  is  so  called, based  on  the  survival  of  the  fits, for  reproduction, and  then  the  meting  of  the  fits. The  whole  scheme  or  what  you're  seeing. We're  still  looking  at  evolution  isn't  it? We're  still  looking  at  a  form  of  Darwinism. We  know  in  nature, evolution,  the  process  of  evolution drives  the  species  towards  higher  life  form. Higher  life  form  is  better adapted  to  the  environment.  That's  in  nature. But  in  our  coding, optimization  according to  some  fitness  criteria. All  we  are  doing  in  our  algorithm  is for  optimization  is  just  driven primarily  by  fitness  cri. But  yet  the  whole  approach, the  whole  metaphor  is  actually inspired  by  what  happens  in  nature. What  we  are  seeing  is the  transformation  from  what we  call  the  neo  Dubinim, the  new  form  of  Dubinism, in  the  context  of  our  optimization, which  is  inherently  very  different  from natural  evolution  or  natural  d  as  in  nature. Selection  variation,  The  blocks. You  see  there  are  two  forces  at  work. Now,  let's  think  analytically, what  they  are  doing. What  those  forces  are  doing. The  whole  thing  about  so  call, when  you  work  with  population  is, you  want  to  you  manage the  diversity  of  the  individuals, is  diversity  good  diversity  is  good. Diversity.  But  on  the  other  hand, in  optim  in  optimization, our  objective  or  motive is  to  find  a  solution. To  find  a  solution  means  to focus  a  bit  more  focus. So  essentially,  when  you  look  at  these  two, one  is  to  create  that  kind of  variations  of  the  diversity. And  then  the  other  is  a  kind  of a  focus  because  focus because  we  are  looking  for  a  solution. So  essentially  in  the  whole  GA, you  have  two  forces  that  work. One  wants  to  make  more  diversity. The  other  one  wants  to  shrink  down the  diversity.  To  forces  that  work. All  right. So  the  first  f, increase  population  diversity,  how we  increase  the  diversity, mutation  recombination. All  right. And  then  the  other  forces  at work  is  to  the  selection. When  you  select  your  focus,  you  select. That  means  that  you  reduce the  diversity,  right. So  22  selection  tracks. One  is  of  parents  and then  of  survival.  All  right. So  When  you  create  diversity, you're  creating  novelty, something  that's  different. In  optimization,  you're exploring  because  it's  different. So  you  explore  as  much  as  possible. Where  else,  selection  is  focused  on  quality. Reduces  the  diversity, but  it  focus  more  on  quality. The  magic  question  is, which  one  should  have  more?  Which  one? Should  they  have  more  diversity? Or  should  have  more  so  called  less  diversity. There  are  two  forces,  right? And  the  answer  of  course  is that  both  are  necessary. Both  the  forces  are  necessary. A  good  optimization  algorithm  is all  about  balancing  between  these  two  forces. So  if  somebody  says,  G, you  know,  G  A  doesn't work,  it  doesn't  converge. Very  simply,  you  can  say,  Yeah, the  diversity  is  not balanced,  you  know,  right? Maybe  you  should  increase the  so  called  the  chances  of mutation  and  reproduction,  right? Increase  the  probability  and  so  on. That  is  essentially  in  a  nutshell,  right? That's  what  you're  managing. You're  managing  diversity  in your  algorithm.  Okay. So  that  whole  framework,  again,  right? Let's  just  be  clear. The  three  framework  there, the  whole  framework, the  GA  framework,  population, parents,  and  then  your  offspring. How  do  you  manage  that  kind  of  diversity? One  is  the  mutation  recombination creates  diversity. Selection  reduce  diversity. And  the  whole  framework,  should  work  if  it manages  these  two  aspects in  a  very  balanced  way. That  is  essentially  the so  called  the  blueprint  in  optimization. Now,  when  you  have  a  problem  to  solve, like  just  like that  individual  in  the  example, we  say  you  walk  to  your  office to  your  boss's  office? It  says,  look,  today, I  want  you  to  think  about work  on  this  project  here. This  project  is  about  solving a  particular  problem  and  so  on. So  Your  boss  tells  you all  the  requirements,  blah,  blah,  blah. Now,  because  you  are  the  chief  architect, so  you  have  to  solve  it. So  you've  got  to  design  algorithm. What's  the  first  thing  you  must  do? You  say,  I'm  going  to  use  GA. If  you're  going  to  use  GA, what's  the  first  thing  you  must  do? You  must  think  about  how to  represent  the  problem. So  therefore,  okay  representation,  right? So  we  look  at  representation. How  do  you  represent based  on  the  real  world  scenario? How  do  you  represent a  solution  for  this  real  world? For  example, in  your  traveling  salesman  prong, you  have  four  cities  1234.  All  right. So  if  you  represent  it  as a  string  of  four  integers, by  3421  means  that  go  to  City  number  three, follow  then  to  City  number  four, and  then  number  two,  and  then  number  one. So  that  342  3421,  that's  your  representation. So  that's  the  first  step. Whatever  your  boss  tells you,  you  understand  it, and  you  think,  how  do  you  represent  it. When  you  talk  about  representation, as  with  what  we  saw  in  nature, there's  a  phenotype  space  and  genotype  space. All  right.  So  your  phenotype is  with  regards  to the  problem  you're  trying  to  solve, right,  the  physical  aspects, the  real  world  aspects  of  the  problem. Whereas  the  genotype  is the  coding  of  the  solution,  right? The  structures  that  you  will manipulate  in  your  algorithm. Okay.  So  you  have  your  phenotype in  your  genotype. Essentially,  it  is  all  about  mapping. The  whole  aspect  of  so called  misrepresentation here  is  about  mapping. There  are  two  levels  of  mapping. One  is  the  encoding. Encoding  means  connecting the  rail  to  your  algorithm. That  refers  to  phenotype  to  genotype  mapping. Your  real  world  problem. How  do  you  map  it  into your  genotype,  your  chromosome. There's  one  form  of  mapping. Any  problem  can have  different  representations. For  example,  binary  string  representation. Real  value  representation. Individual  representation. Different  forms  of  representation. This  means  that  encoding, the  mapping  can  be  one, two,  many,  meaning  whatever  problem, there  can  be  different  ways  of  mapping  it. Was  decoding  is  a  reverse  process. Your  algorithm  solves  it. Generate  gives  you  a  certain  solution. This  solution  must  be manifested  in  the  real  world. You  must  do  decoding. You  do  decoding. Decoding  means  from  the  algorithm, which  is  your  genotype, you  go  to  your  phenotype. This  decoding  process  must  be  a  one  to  one. You  cannot  have  a  situation  where this  genetic  code  here can  mean  this  or  can  mean  that. That  is  not  so  preferred  or  not  appropriate. So  must  be  a  one  to  one  mapping. Let's  get  into  some  of  the  terms  that  we  use, that  every  time  we  use  it, we  use  it  in  a  proper  context or  proper  terms. So  Chromosomes,  so  far  we  know, chromosomes  like  just  like  a  strand of  DNA  contains  your  gene. When  you  say  this  is  a  chromosome, there  are  many  genes  in  that  chromosome. The  co  chromosome  is  made  up  of  genes, which  are  in  positions of  what  we  call  the  low  side  L  OCI. That's  pleural. I  singular,  it  means  locus. When  you  say  the  gene,  I  give  you a  gene  like  a  traveling  salesman  problem, let's  say  six  CD  traveling  salesman  problem. So  546321. It  is  the  locus. For  example,  gene  number  three, that's  a  third  gene. O  gene  number  five,  that's  a  fifth  gene. So  that  is  what  we  mean  when  we  say gene  within  a  chromosome. And  have  a  value,  what  we  call  a  Ale. A  is  like  the  gene  value. L  again  the  traveling  salesman  prom. Let's  say  five  City traveling  salesman  prom,  54321. When  you  decode  it,  it  means go  to  City  number  five, followed  by  four,  followed  by  three, then  two,  and  then  one,  and  then  pack  25. When  you  decode  it,  now  I'm asking  you,  W's  gene  number  two? G  number  two  is  the  second  position. I  number  54321. W  G  number  two  is  the  second  position? Now,  my  next  question  is, what  is  the  value  of  Gen  number  two? Or  I  can  phrase  it.  What's  the  allege  of Gen  number  two?  They  say  it's  four. The  allele  of  gene  number  two  is  four. What's  the  all  of  gene  number  four? 54321?  Is  number  two. There's  a  distinction  in terms  of  the  terms  that  we  use. And  simple  llustration. Let's  say  we  have  this  space of  integer  value  our  phenotype  space. Let's  say  our  GA  uses  binary  coding. We  code  it  as  binary  values. 18,  when  you  encode  it as  binary  will  be  10010. These  are  genotype  and nine  will  be  1001,  and  so  on. The  process  of  converting  from your  phenotype  space  to  your  genotype, that  is  called  encoding. And  the  reverse  of  it, the  reverse  of  it  will  be  decoding. 1001,  when  you  decode  it, it's  actually  number  nine. One,  zero  when  you  decode  it  is  number  two. Very  simple  illustration  to  gives  you a  clear  and  concise  picture of  what  decoding  and  encoding  means. The  representation  is  in  binary. We  have  this  problem  to  solve  here  and the  space  we  are looking  at  is  a  integer  space. But  then  when  we  solve  it, we  represent  the  solution  as  binary, so  that  becomes  our  genotype  space. There's  a  representation. You  see  the  whole  role  of the  role  of  representation  in  more  about the  problem  itself  and  then  how  to  represent it  such  that  that will  be  the  representation  that  your  GA use  in  evolving  for  solution. Okay. So  you  once  you  represent  it, what  is  the  other  aspect  of all  those  individuals that  that  you  need  to  know? Those  individuals,  you need  to  know  how  good  they are  because  there  becomes a  basis  of  selection  here. In  GA,  we  have what  we  call  this  fitness  function, fitness  evaluation  function to  evaluate  the  individuals. This  fitness  is  usually  based on  some  objective  function or  the  cost  function. All  right. So  like  your  traveling  salesman  problem, what's  the  objective  function or  what's  the  cost  function? Is  the  distance,  the  total  distance  travel. Now,  in  GA,  all  you  need  is  like,  you  know, given  based  on  the  objective  function, what  is  the  fitness  of  the  individual? All  right.  So  when  we  refer  to  fitness, we  refer  to  in  the  context  of  GA, it  is  that  figure  of merit  of  how  good  the  individual  is, right,  which  will  be  used  as a  basis  for  so  called  selection. Okay. Quite  often,  when  we  talk  about  the  fitness, right  Remember  is  fitness. Fitness  implies  that  you  want  to  maximize  it. So  we  talked  about  fitness  being  maximized. Although  there  are  many  problems  that are  of  minimization  problems, but  it  is  not  difficult. It's  very  trivial  to  convert,  you  know, from  minimization  to  maximization. And  population, host  candidate  solutions  of  the  problem. You  have  many  individuals  in  the  population. So  those  are  your  samples, and  then  you  have  your  selection operators  that  act  on the  population  level  and  variation  operators. Let's  quickly  just  run this  before  we  look  at  actual  examples. In  the  population  also. Of  course,  the  population,  you  know, you  want  to  maximize  the  diversity. You  want  to  promote  diversity. On  the  other  hand,  also, within  the  space  of  the  population. You  also  want  to  be  able  to  discern, what  is  your  neighbor, what  constitutes  your  neighbor. Because  many  a  time,  your  selection, for  example,  where  to  go,  where  is the  next  solution  to  go  is based  on  the  neighbor. There's  some  of  the  measure of  so  called  a  local  in  a  local  context, where  your  neighbor  is. Now,  this  is  where  you  need  to  understand. The  diversity  of  a  population refers  to  a  number  of  different  fitnesses. When  you  talk  about  diversity, it  could  be  in  the  context of  fitnesses,  the  phenotypes. Maybe  the  value  change  may  be  very  small. But  when  you  decode  it, it  causes  a  so  called a  very  significant  difference in  the  phenotype  expression. Or  it  could  be  the  genotype. For  example,  the  values  of the  genes  are  very  close  together. They  are  actually  different  thing. Diversity  means  that  you want  it  well  spread  out. A  population  that  is  not  well  spread out  would  be  that  a  population where  all  the  individuals  tend  to  clutter  or cluster  around  certain  region or  bias  towards  certain  region. There's  not  a  diverse  population. Therefore,  when  we  design  our  algorithm, we  want  to  have  a  maximum  diversity. That's  why  we  also  need  to  be clear,  what  do  we  mean? In  what  context  of  this  diversity, is  it  the  fitness  diversity, the  phenotypes  diversity  or the  so  called  the  genotypes? Selection  materials,  the  mechanisms, basically  to  identify  parents. We  want  to  select  individuals  for parents  or  selection  for  survival. This  selection  of  parents, they  are  usually  stochastic  in  nature. And  just  to  give a  quick  lantration  of  selection. In  literature,  there  are many  ways  of  doing  selection. There  are  many  different  ways  that  has  been proposed  to  do  selection. One  of  the  most  common  way  is  to  do to  use  what  we  call  a  Rul  hw  selection. In  a  Rul  h,  you all  know  what  a  normal  Ruled  wheel  is. A  Ruled  wheel  like  in  your  casino, it  has  multiple  slots, and  all  the  slots  are  of  equal  size. In  our  selection  mechanism, the  ult  wheel,  the  size of  the  slot  is  according  to  the  fitness. It's  quite  easy  to  say  to  see  that, for  example,  these  three  individuals, A  B  C,  A  has  fitness  of  three, B  has  fitness  of  one, C  has  fitness  of  two. The  size  of  the  ruled  wheel, A  is  half  of  it, B  is  16,  and  then  C  is  26. When  you  spin  it  the  ruled  wheel, obviously,  A  has  a higher  chance  of  selection. This,  of  course,  is  not  the only  way  to  do  selection. In  principle,  any  mechanism  can  be  used. Another  example  is  like  ranking. In  your  root  wheel, you  have  a  so  called  selection based  on  so  called  the  fitness, which  are  according  to the  size  of  the  slots  in  the  root  wheel. Sometimes  this  is  what  we call  the  biased  let  wheel. It's  biased  towards  the  fitted  individual. Other  selection  mechanism. Let  me  just  name  one, like,  for  example,  ranking. You  just  rank  accordingly. Although  the  difference  may  be 0.001,  a  small  difference. But  as  far  as  absolute  value  is  concerned, the  one  with  value  will  rank  higher. There's  not  so  much  of  a  bias  there. It's  just  based  on  ranking. But  regardless,  there  is still  one  way  of  selection. Okay. And  so  there's  selection. Usually  stochastic  from the  parents  to  select  parents, but  the  selection  can  also occur  in  so  called  selection  for  survival. So  after  your  offspring, you  need  to  decide  who survive  into  the  new  generation. Quite  often,  the  mechanism  for  selection for  the  survival  is  deterministic  in  nature. For  example,  our  survivor  selection. So  to  select  who, who  will  survive,  we  can rank  the  parents  and  the  offspring  poo. So  you  take  both  the  parents and  the  offspring  combine  them  together. Then  after  that  based  on  fitness, choose  the  number  of individuals  that  will  make into  the  new  population. Which  means  to  say  your  new  population  will have  offspring  as  well  as  grandparents. Quite  common  that  happens. Remember,  our  algorm  maintains a  fixed  population  size. Although  they  are  GAs  also  that has  dynamic  or  varying population  size  as  it  goes  along. O. And  so  the  variation  operators, what  are  the  variation  operators? Your  recombination,  as  well  as  your  mutation. Right?  So  when  we  describe  to describe  this  variation  operators, basically  a  variation  operator sticks  in  an  argument, which  is  a  individual. One  individual,  two  individuals,  and  so  on. Now,  you  take,  for  example, the  mutation  operators. A  Mutation  operator  takes  a  string, goes  through  each  individual, e  g,  and  then decide  whether  to  mutate  or  not. Usually  there's  a  mutation  probability. It  takes  in  only  one  individual. Therefore,  we  call  it  verity  of  one. Mutation  is  a  kind  of  operation  that takes  one  verity  of  one. Recombination  is  about  passing on  traits  from  parents. You  will  you  will  choose. At  least  two  parents. Two  parents,  it's  usually eth,  greater  than  one. Be  there  are  two  parents, at  least  two  parents. Two  or  more,  T  parents, four  parents,  it's  possible. Recombination.  The  main  distinction between  mutation  and  recombination. Mutation  is  eth  or  one, takes  one  individual  as  argument, and  then  recombination  takes two  or  more,  greater  than  one. Arty  equal  to  two, is  typically your  original  crossover  operation. It's  a  kind  of  operation where  it  takes  two  individuals. Verity  greater  than  two  is  possible, but  not  often  used. That  means  that  multi  parent  reproduction. So  you  have  mutation  type, and  then  you  have  crossover. There  has  been  debate  about relative  importance  of recombination  and  mutation. So  essentially,  you  see  in  your  GA, there's  recombination  and then  there's  mutation,  right. So  of  course,  both  are  used,  right? And  And  also, these  operations  here must  match  your  representation. The  kind  of  variation  operation  whether  it's mutation  or  recombination must  suit  the  representation. So  if  if  one  were  to  debate, between  recombination  and  mutation, which  one  is  more  important? Which  one  has  a  more  prominent  role? Or  is  there  one? Well,  quite  clearly,  you  see recombination  a  lot. Mutation  because  of  the by  nature  of  the  algorithm, the  probability  of  mutation tend  to  be  usually  lower. But  you  have  to  choose. Which  one  is  more  important? Actually,  the  real  answer is  that  both  are  important. But  if  you  have  to  debate as  to  which  one  is  more  important, then  maybe  you  can  debate it  from  the  perspective of  what  can  solve  the  problem? Assuming  you  can  only  have  one. Assuming  that  between  recombination  and mutation,  you  can  only  pick  one. You  can  only  pick  one. Of  course,  the  one  you  pick  must  be  able to  solve  the  problem  in  theory. Which  one  would  you  have  to pick  recombination? Mutation. Again,  I  say  both  are  important. But  if  let's  say, from  a  hypothetical  point of  view,  you  want  to  debate. You  know,  you  say,  which  one  is  better, which  one  should  be  accorded  more  important. One  perspective  we  can  look  at is  assuming  you  were  to  use  only  one. One  would  you  have which  one  would  you  choose? Recombination?  Yeah.  Recombination.  Mutation. Who  says  mutation?  Mutation? Who  says  recombination? Recombination.  I  see  on  the  surface, it  looks  like  the  recombination  is  the  one because  it  caused  the  most  disturbance, changes. But  actually,  in  theory, assuming  you  only  have  one  operation, only  mutation  can  solve. All  right. A  mutation  only  kind of  operation  in  the  algorithm  is  possible. Which  is  what  happens  in the  early  days  off the  algorithm  like  etionary, strategy  and  programming. They  are  mainly  of the  mutationaly  type  of  operation. But  in  principle,  we say  both  are  equally  important. A  GA  requires  both  types  of  operations. Okay.  So  mutation  gives it  that  kind  of  randomness,  right? It's  a  small  random  variance. But  important  to  note, this  is  random  occurrence. And  it  acts  on  only  one  string, so  it's  of  verity  one. In  from  a  historical  perspective, you  see  the  different  types  of GA  like  binary  GA, evolutionary  programming, or  your  genetic  programming. The  way  GA  mutation  works,  very  simple. This  is  your  original  string. When  you  apply  mutation, usually  we  act  a  probability, for  example,  a  probability  of  1%. In  our  algorithm, we'll  go  to  gene  number  one, mutate,  don't  mutate,  1%  chance. If  we  say  you  flip  a  coin. I  just  like  a  coin,  one  side of  it  has  1%  chance, the  heat  has  1%  chance, and  then  99%  chance,  the  tail. When  you  flip  it  more  often  than  not, you  say  mutate,  the  99%. You  go  to  each  gene  and then  decide  whether  to  mutate. When  you  mutate,  because this  is  a  binary  string, all  you  do  is  you  flip  the  one  to  zero. Right?  A  very  small  change. A  very  small  change. But  this  small  change,  right? Sometimes  depending  on  the  problem that  you  solve  can  cause a  very  significant  transformation or  change  in  your  phenotype. There's  your  so  called  mutation. What  about  recombination. Recombination  involves  everything  greater than  one  of  operation. Example,  you  have  two  parents,  1111  and  0000. In  recombination  like  cross  over, we  normally  define  cross  point  or  cross  site. This  is  a  cut.  There's  a  cross  over  site. In  this  case  here,  we  say let's  determine  the  cross  oversight to  be  a  gene  number  four. That's  the  point  where  you  do a  cut  on  both  parents. And  then  from  these  two  parents  here, you  generate  the  offspring. In  the  first  offspring, The  three  ones  is  inherited from  the  first  parent, and  then  the  four  zeros inherited  from  the  second  parent. Likewise  for  the  second  one. What  is  quite  clear  is  that  recombination, the  nature  of  it  is  a  form of  so  called  learning  in  that  sense. It  learns  or  it  pass  on the  traits  from  the  parents  to  the  offspring. Also  very  interestingly,  each  offspring actually  inherit  can  inherit from  more  than  one  parents. That  is  the  mechanism  of  how  it  creates that  variation  in  the  population. So  we  mentioned  about  initialization and  termination.  All  right. So  Initialization,  you  can  you  know, basically  when  you  initialize, very  often,  we  just  randomly  initialize. It  is  very  effective  because  it's  random. Naturally  random, it  has  that  kind  of  diversity in  right  at  the  beginning. On  the  other  hand,  I  also  mentioned, initial  isolation  can  also  be done  in  such  a  way that  we  use  some  kind of  information  or  knowledge, such  as  heuristics, problem  specific  heuristics to  sit  the  population. Good  or  bad.  As  I described  to  you  earlier  on, from  the  context  of  optimization, sometimes  can  be  good. Sometimes  it  may  may  not  be  so  effective. And  when  you  talk  about  termination, reaching  some  fitness  value  or  target fitness  value  based  on the  maximum  allowed  number  of  generation, or  minimum  level  of  diversity, meaning  that  the,  the whole  population  is  about  the  same. It's  like  a  steady  state, it  just  doesn't  vary  anymore. That  can  also  be  used  as  a  termination. Quite  often  also  we  use  time based  on  the  number  of generations  without  fitness  improvement. The  last  one  is  what  we  call  convergence. We  come  up  with  a  way  to  measure  convergence. Meaning  like  let's  say starting  from  this  generation, the  fitness,  the  maximum  fitness  is  0.98. And  then  you  monitor  for 50  generations,  there's  no  improvement. The  best  is  still  0.98. It  means  that  it  has  converged  to a  level  where  you  will accept  that  as  a  solution. Quite  clearly,  you  see  there are  different  ways  we can  actually  institute  all  this. Okay.  So  they  are different  types of  so  called  evolutionary  algorithm. Historically,  we  look  at the  original  GA  started  of  the  binary  string. Historically,  also,  there's a  technique  part  of  evolutionary  computing, evolutionary  strategies, which  uses  real  value  vectors. Evolutionary  programming, finite  state  machine, and  genetic  programming  is about  trees  or  programs  or  structures. Essentially,  when  we  do  GA, we  basically  choose  a suitable  representation. Whether  it's  binary,  real  values, or  whatever  it  may  be. I  think  it's  more  meaningful  if  we go  down  to  actual  example  to illustrate  some  of  the  so  called the  principles  behind  the  implementation of  a  genetic  algorithm. We  look  at Queensb  More  specifically, the  original  problem  in  computer  science, is  eight  queens  problem. In  those  days,  in  the  early  days,  of  course, when  computing  resources  were  not as  advanced  as  what  we  have  now, the  eight  queens  on  its  own  merit also  presents  a  formidable  challenge  as. But  of  course,  these  days, our  advanced  computing  resources  here, eight  queens  is  considered not  very  difficult  or  even  trivial. But  it  is  for  us, let's  use  this  to  illustrate  some  of  the  so called  the  principles  behind the  so  called  implementation  of  a  GA. The  eight  queens  problem. The  problem  says  that  plays eight  queens  in  egg  by  egg  chessboard, such  that  all  the  queens  are  not  attacking. All  right.  In  other  words, you  can  look  at  it  as a  problem  where  you  want all  the  eight  queens  to  be  in a  non  attacking  position, meaning  zero  conflict. You  can  say  you  minimize the  number  of  conflicts  such as  bests  you  go  down  to  zero, or  you  can  say,  you  maximize  the  number  of queens  that  occupy  positions that  are  non  attacking. Both  basically  refers  to the  same  objective  of  what  you  want  it  to  do. You  all  know  what  a  queen  does. A  queen  in  a  chest commands  vertical  position. Vertical  or  horizontal. Meaning  any  other  queen  on the  same  column  or  same  row, that  would  mean  that they  are  mutually  attacking. On  top  of  that,  queen, also  commands  diagonal. Diagonal  from  right  to left  diagonal  and  left  to  right  diagonal. So  any  other  queen  along the  diagonal  positions  would also  be  in  the  attacking  position. Now,  the  challenge  is give  the  are  eight  queens  here, place  all  the  eight  queens, such  that  all  the  queens  are  non  attacking. So  We  can  try  and  do  it  by  hand  and  say, Okay,  you  know,  let's  put  all  these  queens, all  the  black  dots  circles, your  queens,  right? So  on  the  two  front, the  genotype,  and  the  phenotype. So  we  look  at  the  phenotype. What's  the  phenotype? It's  the  board. It's  the  queens.  The  problem  itself. That  is  the  so  called  the  phenotype. Now,  on  the  other  end  of  it, for  your  GA  to  solve  it, you  need  to  represent  it. What's  a  good  representation of  this  so  called  Qin  configuration  problem? You  can  consider  binary  string. Binary  string  is  possible. You  can  the  representation  of a  solution  as  binary  string. Or  you  ponder  further  and  say, is  there  a  better  way  or  more  convenient  way? Right?  Since  there  are  eight  queens  here, perhaps  integers, representation  may offer  a  better  alternative. Then  you  explore  the  words  integer. You  say  they  are  eight  queens, so  it's  very  natural  if  each  of the  queen  I  gave  it  an  identity  value. Number  one,  number  two, number  three,  and  so  on. So  from  there,  you  say,  k, let's  look  at  representation  as  integer. So  when  you  consider the  indigal  representation, this  is  the  phenotype  space,  right? This  is  the,  the physical  aspect  of  what  the  problem  is. How  do  we  map  it  into  a  representation? So  we're  going  to  use integral  representation. This  integral  representation, according  to  here, we  say  this  is  in column  row  number  one,  row  number  one. This  queen,  row  number  one. The  second  queen  in  row  number  three. And  then  the  third  queen  in  row  number  five, fourth  queen,  row  number  two,  and  so  on. There's  a  representation  from the  physical  aspect  of the  problem  to  the  representation. And  this  constitute  our  chromosome. Is  there  another  way  to  do  it? You  could  also  do  it  the  other  way  around. For  example,  the  first  one is  in  Column  number. I  here  column  number three,  Column  number  two, Column  number  six, column  number  three,  and  so  on. Let's  take  a  look  at  this  one. Where  is  G  number  four? This  is  Gen  number  four.  What's  the  all? What's  the  value  of  Gen  number  four? Two.  A  G  number  four  has  a  of  two. What  is  Gen  number  seven? What  is  gen  number  seven,  number  seven. What's  the  u  has  a  value  of  seven. Quite  clearly  what  you  can  see  is  that  here, the  gene  represents  column. Gene  represents  column. And  then  the  allele  represents  column  row. Let's  take,  for  example, this  is  gene  number  two. G  number  two's  column  number  two. The  gene  represents  the  column and  then  is  a  row  three. That's  the  allele. Your  representation  is  such  that, you  know,  the  gene represents  the  column,  right? And  then  the  allele  represents  the  row. And  you  can  do  it  the  other  way  around, that  is  the  gene  represents  the  so  called the  rope  and  the earlier  represent  the  column. Both  are  equally  acceptable. So  we  have  done  one  part  of  it. Remember  I  told  you, the  first  step  in  problem  solving, you're  given  the  problem, then  the  first  thing you  think  about  representation. This  is  our  representation. Then  once  you  have  that  representation, the  next  thing  you  need  to  think  about, how  do  you  evaluate? How  do  you  evaluate the  so  called  the  individuals, how  good  it  is  or  how  bad  it  is? That's  where  you  begin  to think  about  the  fitness. The  fitness  evaluation. And  what  is  the  fitness  evaluation? Well,  very  simple. In  this  case  here,  we  are talking  about  finding a  configuration  of  non  attacking  queens. So  penalty. So  meaning  that  because  the  queens  that  you want  quick  configuration  where no  two  queens  are  attacking. So  you  will  look  for  fitness that  based  on  the  so  called  the  conflicts, the  less  conflict  it  is,  the  fitter  it  is. The  more  conflict  it  has,  the  less  fit. We  need  to  formulate  a  fitness  function. For  this  particular  problem. So  that  would  be  your  second  step.  All  right. Now,  what  you  see  is  that  this  fitness  value, right,  your  GH  just  works  on  the  fitness. It's  just  a  figure,  a  number. But  that  number  corresponds to  how  good  the  individual  is. This  fitness  right? Remember  it's  just  a  number. This  fitness  doesn't  really care  about  what  your  actual  problem  is. Right?  Your  actual  problem  is about  putting  queens  and  all, but  in  your  GA,  it  doesn't  really  care. All  he  cares  about  is  I  give  you  a  a  coding, whether  you  can  tell  me  how  fit  it  is. In  next  sense  here, what  is  quite  clear  or  evident  is that  that  fitness  is  actually  a  breach, a  connect  between your  real  world  problem  and  your  algorithm. Can  you  imagine  that's  all  it  is? That's  how  you  connect  the  real world  to  your  algorithm. What  that  means  is  that  Q  is  so  simple. It  doesn't  care  about  the  complexity of  the  so  called  the  problem. All  it  cares  about  is  there  a  way  to  code  and decode  it  and  also  that  you  know  the  fitness. Then  when  it  solves  the  problem, it  just  crank  based  on  the  fitness  alone. So  therefore,  the  next  step  is to  formulate  the  fitness. To  come  up  with  the  fitness  function, the  so  called  the  model  for  the  fitness. And  once  we  have  that,  we  are  ready to  code  the  algorithm, such  that  it  can  be  solved  through  your  GA. Okay.  So  let's  take  a  short  break. And  then  when  we  come  back,  we  look at  the  formulation  of  the  fitness  function. When  you  are  able  to  formulate  it, it  means  that  you  can actually  code  it  already. That  is  essentially  how  simple the  whole  methodology  is. We  take  a  break  and  we  come  back  around  815. We  are  ban. Let's  carry  on  and  use  the  e  queens prong  to  illustrate  our  fitness  formulation. By  now,  you  know,  fitness is  one  of  the  most  important  component in  our  GA.  Be  it  is  based  on  the  fitness, it  becomes  a  basis  of  a  selection, which  is  a  very  important  force in  genetic  algorithm or  evolutionary  algorithm. The  whole  thing  about  so  called your  eight  queen  is  you  want  to find  a  configuration  of  eight  queens  that are  no  mutually  non  attacking. You're  looking  you're  trying  to  maximize the  number  of  queens  that are  in  a  non  attacking  position or  to  put  it  the  other  way  around, you  want  to  minimize  the  number  of  conflicts. On  that  basis,  yeah, how  can  we  actually formulate  the  fitness  function? Based  on  this  here,  let's  try  and  work  out a  good  formulation  for  the  fitness. So  I'm  going  to  draw an  eight  queen  configuration. So  we  can  draw  a  chest  board. Oh. So  this  is eight  by  eight  che,  right? Let's  Let's  put  is an  arbitrary  placement  of  queen. For  example,  I  can  put  maybe  a  queen. Right  queen  here. They  are  not  attacking. So  I  construct  a  solution or  possible  solution  to  it. So  just  arbitrary  right  now. So  maybe  I  can  put  here. So  far,  I  can  still  manage.  No  conflict. And  maybe  I  can  put  here. And  the  next  one,  I  can  put  here. And  then  the  next  one,  maybe  I  can put  here,  so  far  so  good. I'm  able  to  do  it. Then  the  next  one  maybe  here. The  next  one,  the  only  choice  I  have  is here.  How  does  that  look? A  conflicts? So  do  you  see  any  conflicts? There  may  be  at  least  one,  right? Not  not  so  straightforward to  be  first  time  I'm I'm  able  to  come up  with  a  non  conflicting  one. So  so  where  is  it? This  is  the  conflict.  Right?  Is  that  so? Okay.  So  that's  a  conflict  queen,  right? So  regardless,  this  is  a  queen  configuration. So  in  my  representation, right,  I'm  going  to  do  this. I'm  going  to  use  this  representation. The  row.  So  the  row will  be  the  gene  position. Okay.  So  the  first  row, I  will  say  this  is  two  second  column. I  change  it  a  little  bit from  my  notes,  right? Either  way  is  okay. So  two.  And  then  the  next  one,  five,  three, one,  seven, four,  six,  eight. So  that's  the  representation. Specifically  for  this  configuration  here. You  can  see  where  we  are  leading. The  gene  here,  the  gene  represent  the  row. The  first  gene  row  number  one, the  second  gene  row  number  two, the  all  The  gene  represent  the  row. The  allo  represents  column. The  first  gene  has  u  two. Column  number  two.  The  second  gene  has  five, column  number  five,  and  so  on. This  is  the  string  representation of  this  configuration  here. Now, we're  talking  about  a  general  formulation. When  you  talk  about  formulation, it  means  that  your  intention is  of  course  to  put  it  into  a  code. So  you  have  to  formulate  it. All  right.  So  in  order  to  formulate  it, let  me  just  in  general, just  denote  Q  as  a  configuration. Q  as  a  configuration  denoted  by  Q  one, two,  three  all  the  way  to  Q  eight. That's  a  st  in  general. G  number  one  corresponds  to  number  one, G  number  two  corresponds  to  number  two. So  now  I  wish  to  find? I  wish  to  evaluate. How  do  I  write  an  equation to  check  for  the  conflict? When  you  physically  check  for  the  conflict, you  can  see  form you  can  see  there's  a  conflict  here. In  in  order  to  formulate  the  fitness  motion, you  must  be  able  to  say  based  on  the  numbers, the  properties  on  the  numbers  here. What  is  the  property  based  on  this  property? How  do  you  know  whether  there's  conflict or  between  these  two  numbers? And  then  the  other  aspect  of  it, you  want  to  count  how out  of  this  whole  configuration, how  many  of  the  queens, or  how  many  conflicts  you  can  find. B  that  will  determine the  so  called  the  fitness. So  I  to  calculate the  so  called  the  number  of  conflicts, let's  just  use  CQ. There's  a  number  of  conflicts of  this  configuration. The  Q  is  a  configuration. C  Q  will  be  the  conflict  of queen  number  one  conflict for  queen  number  two, Queen  number  three,  and  then  all  the  way. So  essentially  on  this  equation  here, what  we  are  saying  is  okay, for  any  configuration  like this  configuration  or  Q. So  you  check  Q. How  do  you  check  Q  one? Well,  basically,  Q  one  here. You  will  check  in order  to  know  whether they  are  in  conflict  or  not, you  will  check  against  this  screen. Then  you  check  again  against  this  screen, you  check  against  this  screen,  right? Or  you  cannot  see  what  I'm  pointing  at. So  Okay. So  basically,  for  each  queen here,  right  this  sen, you  check  against  this  screen, check  again  this  screen, check  against  this  s  quen  and  so  on. So  that  is  actually what  you  would  have  to  do. So  in  general,  right? In  general,  how  do you  Q  for  any  quin. How  do  you  formally  the  function  or the  equation  to  count the  number  of  conflicts. So  you  have  to  sum  it  up. For  example,  for,  for  any  Q  I, I  can  be  C  one,  C  two  or, or  e.  So  this  number  of  conflict, we  can  write  it  as summation  of  a  constant  or  a  penalty  value that  we're  going  to  give  it. So  let's  give  it  a  penalty  value  of  Delta. If  there's  a  conflict. So  this  Delta  for  simplicity, let's  just  give  it  a  penalty  of  one. If  there's  a  conflict,  we  just  add  one. So  it's  a  constant.  And  you  will  submit from  So  you  check  against  all  other  queens. So  this  particular  queen CQI  refers  to  any  of  this. So  you  will  check  Q  against  all  other  queens. So  we  use  K  K from  i  plus  1228 For  example,  you  are  in  this  s  queen  here, you  check  against  all  other  queens, plus  128,  or  if  you  are this  screen  this  s quen  then  you  check  against  all  other  queens. I  plus  one.  So  this  constant  this  penalty, when  you  give  it  a  penalty, when  there's  a  conflict. So  and  we  say  we  give  it  a  penalty  of  one. So  it's  equal  to  one. If  I, what's  the  condition  to know  that  these  two  queen? Remember,  the  Q,  the  represents  the  column, and  then  the  row  is  the  gene. Right.  It  turns  out  that  if you  check  the  the, the  difference  in  the  row and  the  difference  in  the  column. If  they  are  equal,  that means  that  they  are  diagonal. So  if  they  are  diagonal, that  means  that  they  are  in  conflict. You  take  the  absolute  value  of  the  gene, and  Q  k,  and  then  you check  whether  they  are equal  to  the  difference  in  the  gen. There  is  k. If  they  are  equal,  that means  the  same  diagonal, so  you  penalize  it  at  one. Otherwise,  will  be  zero. Say  the  ice.  Does  that  make  sense? We  this  is  where  we  check  on  the  diagonals. The  obvious  question  will  be  like, how  do  you  know  they  are  not  in the  same  role  and  same  column? Well,  that  by  virtue  of  the  representation, we  have  actually  incorporated. We  have  instituted  the  requirement that  all  the  values  are  different. All  the  alles  are  different. If  they  are  different,  then  they  are different  column,  Of  course, the  gene  position,  they are  eight  gene  positions, there  are  only  eight,  so they  must  be  different  role. The  requirement  or  the  constraints in  terms  of  same  role  and  same  column, that  one  is  really  satisfied, is  inherent  in  the  coding. What  we  need  to  check  for in  the  formulation  would be  the  diagonal  conflict. Once  you  have  that  for  each  individual  queen, that  gives  you  your  the  number  of  conflict. All  right.  The  higher  the  number  of  conflict, the  less  fit, that  CQ  is  like your  cost  or penalty  function  or  objective  function. In  GA,  we  say,  we  want  to  fitness. Fitness  means  that  figure that  says  how  good  it  is. And  most  GA,  a  lot  of  GA  says, Okay,  the  fitness  should  be  zero  to  one. How  do  we  know?  How  to  normalize  it  0-1? Based  on  the  conflict?  How  do  we  know? Basically  what  we  want  is fitness  fitness  of  Q, we  want  it  to  normalize  0-1. Meaning  one  is  a  bad  zero  is  the  worst. So  to  normalize  0-1, that's  typically  what  fitness is  taken  to  mean. You  say  equal  to one  minus  C  Q divided  by  some  constant  Som  constant. Let's  give  it  Mm. Is  there  a  suitable  value  for? Remember,  the  purpose  of  fitness  function is  just  to  guide  the  selection. And  typical  or  consistent  with what  our  traditional  understanding of  GA  fitness  means, a  value,  you  know, the  higher  the  value,  the  better  it  is, lower  the  fitness,  the  lower  the  fitness, the  influence  it  has  in  terms  of  selection, GA,  in  many  applications, this  value  of  M  here This  value  of  M,  we  don't  really  care. A  lot  of  time  we  give  it  some arbitrary  constant and  usually  like  a  big  value, you  know,  to  normalize. That  will  also  Do  you  understand? To  convert  it  to  let's  say  a  fitness  value, based  on  the  objective  of  what  we  are  doing. One  way  is  just  find  a  constant divided  in  a  constant  one minus  c  Q  divided  by  m. If  the  number  of  so called  conflicts  is  very  high, then  this  value  would  be  bigger. Your  fitness  will  be  lower  and  y  versa. Let  us  be  more  specific. Can  we  have  a  value? Specifically  for  this  problem  for, such  that  you  can  normalize  it  0-1. In  order  to  do  that,  we  must  ask  ourselves, what  could  be  the  worst  case in  terms  of  number  of  conflicts, the  maximum  number  of  conflicts. We  are  talking  about  conflicts here,  conflicts  from  the  queen. What  could  be  the  worst  configuration that  gives  you the  maximum  number  of  conflicts? What  could  be  the  worst  configuration? A  guess? He  draw  like  that,  like  that. That  means  quite  clearly, if  let's  say  all  the  queens are  in  one  diagonal, or  the  other  way  round. That  will  be  the  maximum  number  of  conflicts, according  to  our  formulation  here. What's  that  number?  What's  that  number? What? The  first  quen assuming  you  have  all  in  one.  Right? The  first  screen  case  is  then. The  first  queen  may  encounter  seven. The  second  queen,  six,  T  queen, five.  Fourth  queen  four. You  can  see  the  pattern,  seven,  five,  six, seven  plus  613  plus  518  plus 422  plus  325  plus  two  plus  one  total  28. A  good  normalization  factor  for this  fitness  function  would  be  28. You  have  a  fitness  space. Fitness  space  from  zero  to  maximum  of  one, one  when  there's  no  conflict. When  everything the  configuration  there's  no  conflict, C  is  a  Q  is  zero. One  minus  zero,  you  get  one. This  is  perfect  in  terms  of fitness  so  called  evaluation  function. For  this  problem. Many  problems  you  may  not  know. You  may  not  know  it  is  28. So  you  just  put  a  large  value  in  there, you  know,  an  arbitrary  constant. So  that  is  typically  how  we  handle  it. What  is  important  is  that as  long  as  a  fitness, the  purpose  of  fitness  will tell  you  the  fitness  for  selection. As  long  as  your  fitness  evaluation  function, corresponds  to  your  so called  the  actual  problem, in  terms  of  evaluating the  quality  of  the  solution. All  right?  So  really  not  difficult  to  do. Now,  here's  an  other  scenario. Assuming  I  use  a  different  representation. I  assuming. So  in  my  represent  you  see, you  notice  in  this  representation  here, the  numbers  are  different,  right? This  is  all  a  permutation permutation  of  number. Assuming. I  don't  know.  So  I  just  it could  be  the  numbers  could  also  be  repeated. For  example,  88,  seven, six,  four,  321,  and  so  on. There's  also  a  possibility right  Let's  say  I  use  another  representation. So  every  time  you  will  have  to  check. All  right. Then  your  fitness  function  will  be  different. Okay. More  than  one  way  to derive  write  this  fitness  function  here. Usually  we  call  from the  perspective  of  optimization. We  say  this  is  like the  cost  or  the  objective  function. In  this  case, this  cost  or  objective  function, that  corresponds  to  the  penalty  of the  queen  consistent  with  the  problem. Now,  in  GA,  we  talk  about  fitness  function. Very  often  we  map  it  into  a  fitness  space. Ideally,  that  fitness  space  would be  so  called  a  continuous  range. But  many  problems  you  may  not is  difficult  to  find  such  kind  of  function. That  hopefully  is  a  illustration on  how  you  may  how  you  go  about putting  together  a  problem based  on  your  understanding  of the  problem  and  then  from  there  formulate so  called  fitness  function, and  then  eventually  to  solve. There's  our  fitness,  how  we  formulate  it. And  then  along  the  way, we  talk  about  let's  say mutation,  the  variation  operation. So  Mutation  is  a  small  perturbation. Usually  a  small  probability, like  maybe  les  10%  or  less. In  this  case,  mutation  is basically  because  of  the  nature of  our  representation  here. Mutation  is  basically  just swapping  a,  a  pair  of  values. For  example,  mutation  says that  you  mutate  the  third  gene. You  go  to  the  third  gene, generate  random  number,  it  say  seven. Five,  mutate  to  seven. Now, because  of  the  nature  of  your  representation, the  place  where  seven  was, you  go  to  so  called  change  it  back  to  five. That  still  maintain  that  kind of  permutation  that's  required. Recombinations  Recombination. Remember,  recombinations  create  variation by  inheriting  properties  from  the  parents. Is  of  t  two. We  choose  two  parents, 13526478,  and  then  8765,  all  the  way  to  one. We  decide  a  cross  over  site. Let's  say  cross  over  at  g. This  is  our  crossover  site. Generate  the  offspring. The  first  offspring  inherits  property 135  from  the  first  parent. Then  subsequently,  the  remaining  property 42876  comes  from  the  second  parent. How  do  we  get  the  426876? Well,  starting  from  this  position  here, the  cross  oversight,  the  next  gene  is  five. But  five  is  already  there, we  skip  and  go  to  the  next  one. The  next  gene  is  four. Four  is  not  there  yet,  so  we  put  a  four. Then  the  next  gen,  three is  already  there,  we  skip  three. Then  the  next  gene  two.  We  put  two  here. One  is  ready  there, and  then  we  skip, and  then  go  back  to  the  beginning,  876. By  taking  this  part and  the  remaining  from the  second  parent,  we  generate  this. What  you've  seen  is  that  this  offspring here  inherits  from  parent  one. What  about  Parent  two? Did  it  inherit  anything? Well,  the  parent  to  gives  it  the  order. We  the  offspring  inherits the  order  of  the  remaining  strings. Now, there  are  many  problems  where  the  order  or the  sequence  has  to do  with  the  quality  of  the  solution. But  the  important  point  is  that  the  offspring inherits  from  both  the  parents. Selection,  we  need  to  think  about  selection. We  can  use  Rule  view  selection. Create  a  simple  rule  view. You  have  a  way  to  measure  the  fitness. Institute  some  form  of  ruleth  and then  just  do  the  selection.  You  can  do  that. Or  in  this  so called  blueprint  here  for  eight  queens, we  can  use  a  different  form  of  selection, just  to  make  it  a  little  bit  different. We  can  institute  selection where  we  pick  five  parents, random  out  of  the  population  pick  five, and  then  choose  the  best  tool to  undergo  out  of  the  five,  we  choose  two. There's  also  another  form  of  selection. We  have  that  flexibility  to implement  whatever selection  approach  that  will  work. And  then  there's  a  survivor. Survivor,  normally,  you  want  to  pass on  you  want  to  choose the  best  representation  to  survive. This  survival  usually  also  based  on  fitness, but  usually  is  a  very  deterministic  nature. All  in  all,  you have  a  template  or  a  blueprint, you  know,  to  solve  this  GA  here. In  your  GA,  representation, you  know,  recombination,  and  in  this  case, the  probability  of  mutation, probability  of  recombination, and  whatever  other  so called  parameters  in  that. This  is  just  an  example  to  show you  what  is  in  the algorithm,  solve  a  problem. Now,  the  next  example  we  look  at  is  a simple  what  we  call  function  optimization. You  know  what  a  function  optimization  is. You  want  to  optimize  a  function, either  you  maximize  or  minimize  it. Many  problems  like  for  example, the  regression  type  of  problem, that's  a  form  of function  optimization  Let's  say, for  example,  we  want to  optimize  the  function, f  x  equal  to  squ  very  simple  problem. We're  going  to  use  this  to  illustrate what  are  the  procedures  or  the  steps. We  also  add  the  constraint. We  define  the  space. X  can  be  any  value. X  can  be  infinite, but  we're  going  to  constrain  it  such  that x  is  a  variable  that  is  integer  0-31. This  is  just  an  illustrative  example and  the  such  space  is  just  two. From  here,  based  on  this understanding  of  the  problem. These  are  the  steps  that  we use  to  s  to hand  simulate  how  the  algorithm  will  behave. The  first  thing,  because they  are  integral  u  two  possibilities, we  use  five  bits. Five  bits,  that's  a  representation in  terms  of  binary. And  then  we  generate initial  population  randomly, and  then  we  decide  on  the  decoding  based on  the  x  square  function,  and  so  on. There  is  this  sequence  of steps  that  tells  you  what  to  do. But  it  is  more  effective  if  we  just look  at  this  table  here. So  we  want  to  do hand  simulation  just  to  get a  feel  for  how  GA  works. Assuming  a  population  size of  four  individuals. Population  individual  number  one, two,  three,  four. We  generate  the  initial  population randomly  random. These  are  the  five  individuals generated  in  a  random  manner. According  to  the  framework  of  our  GA, after  the  initial  population, we  need  to  do  evaluation. We  need  to  do  evaluation  or  decoding. In  order  to  evaluate,  you  need  to  decode. This  01101,  when  you  decode  it  in the  phenotypic  space  is  13.  0101. Then  11000  when  you  decode  it,  it  is  24. And  so  on. So  this  is  decoded  back  to  the  x  value. Then  to  get  the  fitness, to  get  the  fitness. We  evaluate  it  based  on the  so  called  the  problem  itself. This  is  f  x,  which  is  x  squared. Ten  squared  169  24  squared 5768  squared  f  19  361. Meaning  because  we  want  to maximize  the  value, the  higher  the  values,  the  fit  it  is. All  right  you  sum  it  up. The  total  fitness  is  1170. The  average  is  293. Now,  let's  normalize  it  in  percentage  terms. 14  the  first  one,  169/1170  is  14.4. The  second  one,  576/1170  is  49.2,  and  so  on. Based  on  this  fitness  here, we  want  to  institute  selection. The  general  rule  of  selection, the  fitter  it  is, the  higher  chance  it  is  selected. The  way  we're  going  to  do  is  going  to  use some  kind  of  a  so  called sarcastic  type  of  selection, But  according  to  the  fitness, the  sample  is  very  small, so  we  just  go  accordingly. We  look  at  the  fitness, we  first  give  copies  to the  one  with  the  highest  fitness. Let  me  just  change  it  to  pen. This  49.2  is  the  highest, so  we  give  it  one  copy. Then  after  you  give  one  copy, one  copy  is  worth  25%. So  49.2  -25  is  24.2. So  24.2  is  left. Then  you  go  to  the  next  round. This  is  fortenoint  four. This  is  24.2.  This  is  5.5. This  is  30.9.  Who  is  the  highest? 30.9,  you  give  one  copy  to  0.9. 30.9  -25,  you  left  with  5.9. Now,  the,  the  current  situation, 14.4  24.25  0.5  and then  5.9,  which  is  the  highest? 24.2.  You  give  another  copy. Two  copies. Now,  24.2  -25,  nothing  left. Then  you  go  to  the  next  row. 14.4,  nothing  here,  the  second  one, 5.5,  and  then  5.9,  which  is  the  highest? 14.4,  so  you  give  one. You  have  a  total  of  four  already  and the  one  that  is  highest contribute  two  individuals, and  then  subsequently,  the  remaining two  comes  from  the  first  and  the  last  one. From  there,  you  create  your parent  pool,  the  parent  pool. 01101. You  give  one  copy.  I  contribute 11  individual  to  the  parent  pool. 1100,  you  have  two  copies. You  create  two  copies  in  the  parent  poop, 1100  here,  and  the  next  one,  the  third  one. Finally,  the  last  one,  contribute  one. This  is  the  selection  at  work. We  have  selected  and the  favor  it  tends  to favor  the  so  called  the  fit  ones. Now  we  want  to implement  crossover  recombination. In  order  to  implement  crossover,  we  decide. Let's  use  a  method  where  we ran  for  each  string, we  randomly  decide  on  which  other string  to  do  crossover. Let's  say  our  random  number generates  21,  four,  three. These  two  means  that  the  first  string will  do  crossover  with  the  second  string. You  take  I. 1101  and  11000. Be  we  generate  two. The  first  string,  do  cross over  with  the  number  two. Then  we  also  generate  a  random  number, what  we  call  the  cross  oversight, which  position? It  says,  cross  oversight  number four,  G  number  four. This  is  the  cross  oversight  here,  and  here. So  it  contributes  from  both  parents. So  you  take  0110, from  the  first  parent  and then  zero  from  the  second  parent. So  you  get  this  offspring. That's  the  offspring  we  generate.  Okay. So  this  is  just  a  hand  simulation. Now,  after  you  have  the  offspring,  right? You  want  to  evaluate According  to  our  framework, you  also  evaluate  the  offspring. In  order  to  evaluate  the  offspring, you  decode  it  01100, decode  12,  x  squared  will  be  144. Then  the  second  string,  625, string,  729,  and  so  on. You  sum  it  up,  you  get  1754, and  the  average  is  439. What  is  your  observation? Just  from  this  one  iteration. What  is  your  observation? You  can  see  the  overall  fitness is  much  improved. Why  does  it  improve? Why  does  it  improve? It's  the  selective  force  that  is  at  play. And  also  the  cross  over  the  generation  of inheritance  of  property  from  two  parents. Of  course,  if  you  do  it  more, after  more  than  one  iteration, you  can  see  the  fitness would  improve  with  time.  Okay. So  of  course,  this  is  a  very  simple  problem, but  just  to  get  for you  to  get  a  feel,  you  know, for  how  a  GA  works  in  solving  problems. And  that  is  essentially  how  it  works. So  the  next  slide  you can  You  can  practice  a  little  bit, use  it  to  get  a  feel  for  simulation  by  hand. It's  like  with  these  two  examples  here, you  see  the  overall  picture  on how  to  build  a  GA  genetic  algorithm. Now,  from  a  so called  a  problem  solving  perspective. Let's  try  and  understand, the  overall  in  context how  GA  fair  in  terms  of  performance. We  say  is  good. I  can  only  tell  you,  GA is  fantastic,  is  good,  you. But  how  do  I  is  there  a  way  we  can justify  it  and  see  it  as  a  whole, that  kind  of  performance  improvement or  the  potential  of  GA? In  reality,  people  have different  views  on  GA  or  EAs. We  know  it  is  robust. But  then  to  explain  why  it's  robust, I  think  different  people  would probably  explain  it  quite differently  and  so  on. But  Here's  a  fact. We  know  so  far. We  know  so  far.  When  we  want  to  solve, to  get  high  quality  solution, we  need  some  kind  of  customization. The  more  you  customize  it, hopefully,  you  get  better  quality  solution. But  then  is  there  a  price  to pay  if  you  are  to  customized? So  intuition  will  tell  you  that  if  you  are  to customize  the  range  of the  set  of  problems  you  solve, you're  going  to  solve  it  well, but  the  range  of problems  that  you're  going  to  solve, is  going  to  narrow  down. So  let's  put  on  the  graph  and see  how  this  pens  out. So  The  book  by  Gb  gives  a  very good  that  was  one  of the  so  called  the  classic  typical  textbook on  genetic  algorithm,  the  early  textbook. He  puts  it  like  this, basically  his  view  on  how  GA  stands. If  we  were  to  sketch  it  on a  scale  where  on  the  vertical  scale  is the  performance  methods on  the  performance  itself. Then  on  the  horizontal  scale, we  think  of  all  the problems  that  is  possible. All  the  problems. Not  just  a  specific  problem, all  the  problems  in  general,  right? If  I  give  you  a  method and  it  is  a  random  search  method. Remember, we  say  random  search  will  also  work. If  it  is  random  search, what  do  you  expect  a  performance? Well,  it  will  work.  But  generally, the  performance  may  not  be  so good,  may  not  be  so  good. If  you  customize  them. You  have  some  kind  of  specially incorporated  custom  technique  in  there. Then  you're  going  to  solve  it  better. Performance  is  going  to  be  better. You  have  this  peak  here. For  this  narrow  range of  domain  of  problems  here. From  this  narrow  domain of  problems,  you're  going  to  do  well. Performance  is  going  to  be  very  good. Custom  solution.  What  about  GA? G  is  generally  better  an  random  set. Because  it  is  so  called  algorithm, is  good  for  almost  all  the  pros. This  is  a  view  of the  a  what  Ober explains  the  way  he  sees  how  GA  works. But  modern  GA,  the  more  recent  GA, we  see  a  tendency  of  the  algorithm  or  GA being  incorporated  or embedded  with  domain  knowledge. So  this  is  a  trend  in  the  90s. So  we  add  problem  specific  knowledge. In  the  area  we  work  in  that  I  work  in, we  call  it  memetic  algorithm,  right? So  there's  even  a  journal on  this,  which  I  started. So  that's  a  trend  in  the  90s. Now,  what  is  the  effect  of  creating  that  kind of  so  called  incorporating that  kind  of  domain  knowledge? It  causes  what  we  call the  deformation  of  the  curve. Our  modern  view, our  modern  view  tends  to  go  like  this. Again,  the  performance  methods, the  performance  on  a  vertical  scale  and then  horizontal  scale,  all  the  problems. Your  EA. Your  EA,  your  plain  EA, just  with  mutation  and  then  recombination. Then  you incorporate  domain  knowledge  into  it. How  is  it  going  to  affect  the  GA? Well,  performance  should  be. Performance  should  be  better. You  can  see  that  on a  subset  of  some of  the  problems,  it  does  better. There's  a  curve  deformation. Then  you  incorporate  even  more  knowledge you  custom  even  more. You  create  this  greater  deformation. Basically,  it  does  pretty good  in  this  narrow  range  of  problems. Then  you  incorporate  even  more, make  it  more  specific. It  does  extremely  well. On  a  much  narrow  band  of  problem. We  call  this  a  curve  deformation. This  is  the  so  called  modern  view on  how  GA  ft. Now,  here's  the  question  to  ask. You  consider  all  the  problems, consider  all  the  problems, and  consider  the  different  curves  here. What  is  the  so  called  on  average? Which  algorithm  is  better? On  average,  across  all the  pro,  all  the  problems. Not  just  on  a  specific  class on  all  the  problems  on  average. Which  one  is  better?  The  same. On  average,  right? So  there's  a  tendency to  suggest  or  believe  that, you  know,  the  area  that  it  covers, you  know,  is  pretty  much  the  same  on  average. I'm  not  sure  if  we catch  what  I'm  trying  to  say. This  is  like  saying  on  average. All  algorithms  are  the  same. On  average,  across  all  the  problems. All  the  algorithms  are  the  same. But  of  course,  if  you  want  to solve  a  specific  class  of  problems. With  high  performance, you  need  to  sacrifice  in  terms  of  the  range. Another  way  of  saying  is that  there's  no  such  thing  as a  super  algorithm  that  can solve  all  problems  equally  well. There's  no  such  thing. This  is  what  we  call  the  no  free  lunch. There's  no  free  lunch  in  optimization. When  you  do  well  on  a  certain  aspect, chances  are  you  will  sacrifice. What  I've  shown  you  is  actually  two  views. One  is  the  earlier  views, and  how  GA  fare. This  one  tells  you  that GA  tends  to  be  better, across  all  problems  and better  than  random  search. But  the  newer,  the  newer  theory I  believe  tend  to say  that  all  algorithms  are  the  same. Even  on  random  search. If  you  put  them  together,  they  are  the  same. Because  on  average  on  all  the  problems, you  must  emphasize,  we  must emphasize  all  the  problems, they  are  the  same. To  put  it  another  way. We  say  this  is  no  free  lunch. The  modern  theory  suggests  the  search  for an  all  purpose  algorithm  is  fruitless. There's  no  such  thing. And  this  is  what  we  call the  no  free  lunch  theorem,  the  no  free  lunch. Of  course,  in  the  real  world, a  lot  of  times  you  are  faced with  so  called  the  situation  where  we  have a  problem  to  solve  and  we want  to  solve  in  terms of  so  called  to  get  the  best  performance. In  real  world  context,  is  the  minimize, you  know,  so  called maximize  reward  and  so  on. Okay. All  right. So  evolutionary  computation and  global  optimization. A  lot  of  times,  I  think  many  of you  use  the  term  global  optimization. Of  course,  I  think  when  you,  you also  have  local  optimization. Global  means  that  you  for the  best  solution  out  of  some  finite  set. The  g  is  when  you  do  global  search, you  are  literally  sing  for  the  best. Now,  if  we  use  deterministic  approach, a  lot  of  time  the  pro  it  may  not  be applicable  because  the  problems are  just  too  complex. Deterministic  approaches  will  not  work. Therefore,  we  use  approximate  algorithm more  like  heuristic  base, or  even  better  heuristics  like  a  GA. When  you  compare  deterministic and  so  called  your generate  and  test  kind  like  your  GA. You  are  basically  comparing  two  ideology. The  first  when  it's  deterministic. Essentially  what  you're  saying is  I  don't  care  if  it works  as  long  as  it converges  because  a  determinist. It  may  not  find  a  solution, but  it  does  reach  a determinating  point,  so  it  converges. That's  your  determinist. For  your  GA,  GA is  more  towards  the  heuristic  type. More  specifically,  we  say the  meta  heuristic  type. Your  GA,  the  principle  of  your  GA  is, I  don't  care  if  it  converges. I  may  not  converge,  but  as  long  as  it  works, it  gives  you  a  solution  that  is  good  enough. That  is  the  so  called the  mentality  of  GA  stands. And  You  can  compare G  and  neighborhood  search. Neighbor  search  is  more  of  a  local  search. But  more  appropriately,  these  days, your  GA  is  also hybridized  or  incorporated  with neighborhood  search  or  local  search. That  branch  of  GA  is  what we  call  the  mimetic  algorithm. It  is  out  of  the  scope of  what  we  are  trying  to  do, but  there's  a  lot  of  work  being  done. Even  my  research  is very  much  towards  that  angle. Okay. So  that  is  pretty  much what  I  want  to  cover  talk  about  today. Now,  I  just  want  to  make one  announcement  pertaining  to  the  quiz. So  your  quiz  will  be  on  first  of  September. That's  the  last  week,  the  fourth  week. Okay.  And  you  take  note  of  the  time. It  is  930  and  1030. I  would  have  preferred  to  do it  during  class  itself, then  it  won't  drag  on  too  long, but  as  it  is  now, it  is  a  challenge  nowadays  to  find  venues, right  to  conduct  quiz beyond  the  normal  schedule  hours. Of  course,  930  and  onwards, usually  there  are  no  classes. So  that's  a  time  slot. So  it'll  be  more  like  a  15  minute  kind of  quiz,  right? I  also  want  you  to  take  note that  the  venues  are spread  out  across  three  venues, LT  19  A,  which  is  this  LT  here, and  LT  two  A, which  is  across  there  and  also  LT  five. Where  you  go  to  take  your  quiz, I  will  make  that  announcement  in the  NT  n,  right? And  usually  we  have  a  requirement. We  say  you  must  you  must  sit, leave  a  ti  space  between  each  adjacent. If  not,  I  could  easily  do with  even  one  LD  if  need  to, but  there's  all  this  requirement. And  you  need  to  bring  your  ID. Just  a  pen  picture  ID. I'm  thinking  of  not Not  having  to  use  calculator. Meaning  I'll  design  the  questions  or problems  such  that  you  don't  need  calculator. Of  course, your  mobile  phones  and  smart  devices are  strictly  prohibited.  All  right. Please  observe  these  rules  and requirements  because  we  don't want  to  get  into  a  situation  where, you  know,  you  get  into  a  complication. Okay,  running  a  file  of the  so  called  the  regulations. Okay.  So  that  will  be  on  the  fourth  week, the  last  week  for  my  car. So  I'll  see  you  next  week. Thank  you. H
