Okay.  Good  evening,  everybody. Okay.  So  let's  do a  quick  recap  of  what  we  did  last  week. Okay.  So  basically,  you  were  mainly talking  about  how  to determine  the  so called  optimal  model  parameters of  the  model  that  you  have  chosen. So  in  your  machine  learning  pipeline, basically,  you  have  to  first  of all,  a  suitable  model. Okay.  You  have  to  choose a  suitable  model  regardless  of whether  it's  some  distribution  or, you  know,  neural  network. And  all  these  distributions  or neural  network  will  have some  model  parameters, right  that  you  need  to  learn from  your  training  data. Okay.  So  we  discussed last  week  how  to  so called  learn  these  model  parameters,  right? What  it  means  to  be  optimal in  terms  of  the  model  parameters. So  the  first  one  was  using  the  MLE. So  in  the  MLE  is  basically  you are  trying  to  maximize  the  likelihood. So  D  D  is your  training  data  and  then  you  have the  unknown  parameters  that you  want  to  learn, D  is  the  training  data  set. We  saw  that  the  maps  of  this is  basically  the  same  as the  maps  of  the  taking  the  log. So  because  the  log  is a  monotonically  increasing  function, so  they  have  the  same  optimizer. Usually,  we  use  the  log  is  because it  makes  your  computation  easier. There's  no  particular  reason why  you  must  use  lot. Is  that  it  makes the  finding  the  derivative  easier, because  we  saw  that  this  guy  over  here, we  assume  the  data  set  is  IID. So  this  guy  will  become a  product  of  the  data  points, the  Dh  of  each  of  the  data  points. So  if  I  take  log, then  this  becomes  a  sum. Then  to  find  the  maximizer. Usually,  what  we  do  is  to  simply  take the  partial  derivative  with  respect to  the  parameter that  we  are  trying  to  look  for. If  I  take  the  partial  derivative, the  advantage  of  having  a  sum  is  that  now the  partial  derivative  can  go inside  interchange  with  the  summation  sym. This  becomes  much  easier  to  compute. That  was  the  MLE.  Then  we'll also  talk  about  MAP. For  MAP,  we  are  trying to  maximize  the  posterior. So  now  we  treat the  data  as  something  that's  random, and  we  are  trying  to  maximize the  posteror  distribution  of the  data,  the  parameters, given  that  you  have  observed the  data  set,  the  training  data. Using  base  rule,  we saw  that  this  is  proportional,  right? This  guy  is  proportional  to the  likelihood  multiplied  by the  prior  distribution. And  of  course,  this  would  be  the  same  as taking  the  maps  is  the  same as  taking  the  maps  of  the  lot  as  well. So  typically,  we'll  also  take  the  lot. So  this  would  now  be  maximizing maximizing  the  log  likelihood plus  the  lot  of  the  prior. So  now  we  are  maximizing  this. So  there's  an  extra  term  over  here. So  this  extra  term is  the  one  that  allows  you  to put  in  your  prior  belief, right,  your  additional  information. So  if  you  know  some  additional  information, that  this  data  is  more  likely to  be  of  certain  value, then  you  can  use  that. But  of  course,  if  you don't  have  additional  information, if  my  P  data  is  just  proportional  to  one, meaning  it's  a  uniform  distribution. No  matter  what  is  the  value  of data  is  the  same  probability, uniform  distribution,  then  you can  see  that  in  this  case, this  guy  would  be  something  that  is, will  be  a  lot  of  a  constant, a  lot  of  a  constant  when  you  take the  differentiation,  this  will  become  zero. So  then  then  is exactly  the  same  as  the  MLE,  right. So  in  this  case,  this  is actually  equivalent  to  MLE. Okay.  So  this  guy  is  basically  allow  you  to, you  know,  but  in  the  additional  information that  you  know  about  data. So  that  was  the  focus  of  last  week, how  to  find  what is  the  reasonable  procedure  that we  usually  use  to find  the  optimal  parameters, so  the  MLE  or  the  MAP. This  one,  we  are  going  to change  gears  a  little  bit. Now  we  are  going  to  look at  slightly  more  complicated  models. Previously,  we  were basically  using  simple  distribution, like  your  bedoi  exponential, Gaussian  distribution. Today  we'll  learn  about  how to  combine  these  distributions, combine  them  together  to build  more  complicated  distributions  that can  hopefully  model  your  application or  your  data  better. We'll  talk  about  make  sure  models  today. And  then  of  course,  in  subsequent  roots, we  will  see  how  to  do additional  more  complicated  models,  Okay. The  mixture  models  that we're  going  to  talk  about, We'll  have  this  form,  so  I'll go  through  this  in  detail  later. So  you  can  see  that  it  has  this  kind  of  form. And  basically,  we  are  going  to  use the  EM  MLE  algorithm to  find  the  optimal  parameter. But  it  turns  out  that  because of  the  way  we  construct  the  mixture  model, finally  MLE  directly  is  not  so  easy. That's  why  today,  we have  to  learn  something  new. We  are  going  to  learn  this  thing called  the  EM  algorithm, which  is  actually  basically trying  to  find  the  MLE. This  algorithm  is  actually  a  way to  approximate  approximate  the  MLE, because  the  MLE  itself  becomes  intractable. Okay.  So  yeah. So  that's  the  and very  high  level  overview of  the  mixture  model. So  the  question  is, why  do  we  need  mixture  models,  right? So  if  you  look  at  this  example  over  here, so  they  say  you  are  measuring the  height  and  weight  of  a  population,  right? So  this  is  a  two  D  plot. Each  point  corresponds  to the  height  and  weight  of  one  individual. If  you  look  at  this  guy  over  here, you  want  to  feed  a  distribution  to  this, you  may  think  that  y, I  will  try  to  fit  a  gauzing distribution  to  this  data. But  you  can  see  that  it becomes  very  difficult  to  fit a  ging  distribution  because there  are  some  parts  that are  quite  diffuse  over  here. There  are  some  parts  that are  quite  dense  over  here. It  made  sense  to  try to  fit  two  gin  distributions, instead  of  a  single  gucing  distribution. For  example,  if  somehow, we'll  talk  about  this  later  on, if  somehow  I  can  cluster the  data  into  two  parts. So  the  red  color  one  and  the  blue  color  part, then  I  can  fit  one  gucing  distribution  in this  red  color  part  and  then  fit another  gucing  distribution to  this  other  part. Then  it  makes  it  much  more  convenient. Instead  of  trying  to  forcibly  fit one  single  gin  distribution to  the  whole  data  set. Another  example, typical  example  is  that,  of  course, in  images,  the  can have  many  objects,  right  in  an  image. So  for  example,  the  elephant  and  the  zebra, right  they  will  look  quite  different. If  I'm  trying  to  fit  one  distribution  to all  the  objects  or  even if  they  are  the  same  animals, right  is  going  to  become  very  difficult. So  your  fitting  will  not  be  very  accurate. So  instead,  we  will  try  to  if  possible, we  want  to  fit  different  distributions, different  objects  inside  your  image. In  this  example,  we  can  see  that  even even  in  the  case where  they  are  the  same  animals, the  same  bird,  to  represent  the  whole  image, right,  we  actually  need, for  example,  two  gaucin  distributions. It's  impossible  to  have  just  one single  gaucin  distribution  in  order  to, you  know,  to  cover  two  objects,  right? So  you  have  multiple  objects in  the  same  image, you  will  probably  need more  than  one  distribution, right  to  be  associated with  each  of  the  object  in  your  image. So  this  will  be  kind  of  the  motivation. So  this  one  will  be  is  a  actual  example, right,  actual  practical  example. You  can  go  to  this  link,  maybe This  is  a  point  cloud  sation using  the  so  called hierarchical  GM  Dusi  model. We'll  learn  more  about  this  GM  later. Basically,  the  Point  Cloud. One  example  is  the  lidar, on  your  autonomous  vehicle. You  have  this  lid  which is  actually  producing, the  laser  will  hit  some  object, you  will  return  back  to  the  sensor. You  will  record  something  called Point  Cloud  is  a  three  D  point  cloud. And  we  are  trying  to  represent the  Point  Cloud, using  different  distribution. In  this  Gigab  repose  history, people  have  used  this  Gausia  mite  model, to  represent  the  Point  Cloud. You  can  see  in  this  example, this  is  actually  a  vehicle. Moving  along  the  street,  this  is  the  vehicle. So  you  can  see  that  as it  moves  along  the  street, it  will  be  very  difficult  to represent  all  the  Lida  point  clouds using  one  single  distribution. But  rather  you  can  see  that  here the  different  colors  will  represent different  distributions. We're  actually  using  many different  distributions  combined together  to  represent  the  whole  point  cloud for  this  Lida  scan. Yeah.  Another  example  here is  they  are  trying to  represent  the  rabbit using  the  point  cloud. Again,  you  can  see  not  possible  to  represent the  rabbit  using  one  single  one  single  gals. But  rather  we  are  now  dividing  it  into many  different  pastures  and representing  them  with  different. All  these  gals  will treat  them  this  whole  thing. This  whole  thing  is  called  a  mixture. It's  a  mixture  or  multiple  gals together  that  will represent  this  whole  object. This  one  is  this  is  using  100  galcan. This  is  using  800  thousands. Okay.  Yeah,  so  we  can  see how  this  is  done,  but  yeah. Okay.  Coming  back  to  that, you  can  yeah  look  at  the  Treat, play  around  with  the  gig  hub. Then  we  come  to  what  are  all these  so  called  mixture  models that  we  are  trying  to  do? Basically,  the  idea  is  actually  very  simple. Originally,  we  have  we  have  one  distribution. Previously,  we  were  always  talking about  one  single  distribution with  some  model  weight. So  this  is  your  parameter  weight. Okay.  Here  I'm  going to  use  a  different  symbel  from data  because  later  on  you'll  see I  need  to  use  the  data  for  something  else. So  this  is  ta. This  eta  is  basically the  data  that  we  have  been  using  previously. Previously,  we  use  one  single  distribution to  model  the  data. But  now  very  simple, we  are  going  to  allow  it  to  have multiple  distributions. So  we  are  to  allow  we  are basically  looking  at  some  eta one  and  then  we  have  Data  two  and  so  on. So  let's  say  we decide  to  make  use  of  k  of  them,  right. So  we  have  K  distributions  to  model  the  data, and  we  are  basically  combining them  together  into  this  thing  called  mixture. Basically  we  are  going  to take  some  probability  weight. So  say  let's  call  it  zo one  this  then  we basically  combine  them  together. So. So  this  is  my  overall  distribution. So  this  is  given  now  I  call  it  data,  right? So  my  data  here  is  the  overall  model. So  this  is  the  overall. So  your  data  will  consist  of all  the  tas.  There  are  t  of  them. Of  course,  sometimes  in  some  application, we  also  don't  know  what should  be  all  these  probability  weights, right  that  we  are  used to  weight  the  different  distributions. So  we'll  also  treat  them  as  unknown, as  something  to  be  estimated. So  you  will  also  include  the  Pis. So  simply  write  P. P  basically  this  Pi over  here  is  actually  a  distribution. So  a  discrete  distribution, Pi  one,  Pi  two,  and  so. This  itself  a  okay, we  can  call  this  a  categorical  distribution. So  it  basically  tells you  what's  the  probability  that I  belong  to  the  first  component. We  call  this  one  single  component, this  is  the  first  component,  this  is the  second  one,  this  is  the  third  one. If  I  give  you  X,  this  Pi  one  tells  you  what's the  probability  of  this  X coming  from  the  first  component. Pi  two  is  the  one  that tells  you  what's  the  probability of  this  X  coming  from the  second  component,  and  so  on. Pi  k  is  the  probability  of being  drawn  from  the  component. So  this  is  itself  a  distribution, which  means  that  all  the  Pi  Pi  small  k is  all  non  negative  and  then  the  sum. From  one  to  b  k  equals  to  one. Okay.  Yeah.  So  we can  see  the  ID  is  very  simple. We  basically  we  have some  some  ads  that  we  observe, some  facial  vector  that  we  observe. We  know  that  this  facial  vector  could be  coming  from  K  different  distributions, but  we  don't  know  which  one  is  in  advance. So  we  allowed  it  to  say that  we  have  certain  probability or  coming  from  the  first  distribution, certain  probability  from the  second  distribution  and  so  on. And  then  certain  probability from  the  last  distribution. You  can  see  that  this  is  basically  the overall  the  overall  distribution that  you  are  working  with. I  give  you  a  K.  If  I  don't tell  you  in  advance which  component  is  coming  from, this  is  exactly  the  likelihood  of  the  data. This  will  be  the  likelihood  of the  data  without  knowing  which  component it  comes  from.  All  right. So  Yeah. Typically,  we  use  I hope  you  all  are not  confused  by  this  notation. I  may  do  a  bit  scary, but  it's  not  right,  it's  just  a  summation. So  it's  basically  this  guy written  in  a  compact  form,  right? Summation  small  k  from one  to  big  K,  K  components,  Pi, sm  K  K.  Okay. So  it  can  be  written  in a  very  compact  form.  Okay. And  then  we  are  going  to to  think  that  each  component, which  component  is  coming from  is  actually  given  by some  so  called  latent  variable that  we  don't  observe. Let's  interpret  it  as having  some  latent  variable. L  at  just  means  it's  unobserved. We  don't  actually  observe  it. So  there's  some  latent  variable  z  that  tells you  which  component this  is  coming  from,  right. So  now  we  have  k  components, and  then  if  for  some  reason, let's  say,  if  some  auricle,  right, some  body  tells  you  this x  is  coming  from  component  three, then  my  z  will  goes  to  three. If  it's  coming  from  component  K, then  my  z  will  equals  to  k,  right? But  the  z  itself is  not  something  you  observe. You  only  observe  the  d.  Okay. But  we  can  think  of  it  as  there's some  underlying  z  that is  basically  giving  you the  the  component  that the  is  coming  from,  right? So  your  Z  itself.  So  the  z can  take  on  value  one,  two, up  to  k,  right, and  basically  is  is  from the  categorical  distribution  is  from  your. So  P  K  is  simply the  probability  of  z  equals  to  small  k.  Okay. Okay.  So  In  general, this  is  called  a  mixture  model. This  is  called  mixture  model. This  is  called  a  Now we  can  specialize  it to  a  Gausia  Mature  model. As  you  can  guess,  the  Gausia  mixture  model means  that  all  the individual  components  are  Gaussian. That's  why  it  has  a  special  name. It's  called  G  M  for  git  model. That  means  the  distribution  you're  working with  is  basically  a  sum  of  gaucia. So  the  Dacian  PDF, M  K  Sigma  K. So  this  is  the  mean, and  this  is  your  covariance  matrix. By  the  way,  I  hope  we  are  all  clear. All  these  are  vectors  So  I'm too  lazy  to  write  the  vector  sign. All  these  are  vectors.  And  of  course, this  Sigma  is  a  matrix. Okay.  Then  in  this  case, the  data,  what  is  the  data? The  data  would  be  the  the  means and  the  covering  matrices. We  don't  s  all  these  in  advance. There  are  k  of  them, and  then  of  course,  the  Pi. Usually  we  will  write  the  Pi at  the  front  because  this  is the  first  thing  that  you  see. The  Pi  will  be  the  probably distribution  of  the  latent  variable. So  one  example  over  here. So  we  can  see  in  this  dataset. So  these  are  actual  dataset. Of  course,  at  the  beginning, you  cannot  you  don't know  what  colors  they  are. These  colors  are  added  on  later  on, you  are  only  given  the  data  points. And  then  we  have  a  way  to  partition the  data  points  into three  different  groups or  three  different  clusters. So  the  blue  one, the  green  one,  and  the  red  one. Once  you  have  done  this  partitioning, you  can  see  that  using the  gucian  distribution to  model  each  of  the different  clusters  makes  sense, because  y, we  can  see  you  can  model  it  quite  well. All  these  circles  are  the  conto of  your  gucian  distribution. Okay.  So  we  have  three  galen  distribution. And  the  first  gu  distribution  has  mean  00, so  it's  the  blue  one  right with  this  covenan  matrix  over  here. And  then  the  weight  given  is  0.3. So  basically  how  we  get the  0.3  is  that  basically  30% of  the  original  data happens  to  be  in  the  blue  cluster. So  that's  why  it's  0.3.  Then  we  have the  second  cluster  is 0404  would  be  this  one,  the  green  one. The  mean  is  04.  Yes,  a different  variance  Sigma  two  from  before, and  then  also  0.3. Then  the  last  one  is  we  weighted  0.4. 40%  of  the  data  is  in  the  red  color  one, and  the  mean  is  at  44,  right. So  you  can  see  the  center of  the  galcin  is  at  44, and  this  galcin  is  symmetric. So  that's  why  the  core  variance  is  side. The  Pi  here  would  be simply  the  weight  0.3,  0.3, 0.4,  and  of  course, the  data  will  be  the  Pi and  the  meals  and  Sigmas. In  some  applications, you  may  already  know  the  Pi  in  advance, so  then  you  don't  need  to  estimate  it, then  you  don't  need to  put  the  Pi  inside  the  data. I  would  say  in most  applications  all  applications, the  meals  and  the  Simas would  not  be  know  in  advanced. So  this  would  be things  that  you  really  have  to estimate  from  your  training  data. Okay.  Yeah,  we  can  do  at  this  upter  notebook, but  we'll  do  at  this  again, come  back  to  this  again. Basically,  this  upter  notebook  is telling  you  I  give  you  this  dataset, how  to  partition  or cluster  the  data  points into  different  clusters. So  that  we  can  apply  the  gucian. Here  you  can  see  that  there  are  five  gis, basically  one  galcan  here,  one  gal  here, one  here,  another  gcian here  for  the  more  diffuse  data and  another  gucian  over  here. Yeah.  Okay.  So  let's  do  some  quick  questions. Okay.  So  you  can  choose  more  than  one  answer. So  by  the  way,  so  you  go the  clap  right  in  the  t  two  days  we  tree, go  to  the  tin  We  tree  and then  enter  the  Clap  from  here.  Oh Okay.  So  there's  a  question  here. Is  the  MAPE  always  superior  to  the  MLE? Not  necessary,  so  depends  on how  well  you  choose  the  prior  distribution. Remember,  we  have a  mathematical  basis  for  the  MLE,  right? So  that  is  in  the  supplementary  material. So  the  MLE  is  if  you  don't  choose  any  prior, it  will  always  be  consistent. As  long  as  you  have  enough  data  samples, we  can  prove  that mathematically  it  will  be  consistent. You  will  converge  to  the  true  parameter. Of  course,  assuming  that  your  data  is  coming from  this  particular  distribution,  right. Whereas  the  MAP  because  you  have some  prior  distribution  added  to  it, then  it  may  not  become  consistent  anymore. Depending  on  how  you choose  the  prior  distribution, maybe  you  chose  it  from  the  I, is  not  consistent  with  the  true  data. Then  you  may  ask,  Why  do  I  want  the  MAP? In  this  case  when if  you  know  something  in  advance, you  can  add  it  to  the  MLE. This  will  allow  you  to  find the  optimal  data  with  less  samples, you  can  optimize  it  and  you  can  find  it. Faster,  right  in  less  iterative  steps. Later  we'll  see  you in  some  complicated  situations, you  may  not  be  able  to  find the  MLE  directly,  right? But  it's  just  calculation. We  have  to  use certain  algorithms  to  find  the  MLE. Of  course,  having  additional  information, you  can  constrain  the  optimization  better. You  can  hopefully  get better  results  with  less  samples. But  of  course,  this  will  very  much  depend  on you  choosing the  appropriate  prior  distribution. Okay.  So  by  itself, mathematically,  the  ML  E  always  work,  right? It's  always  consistent,  but  then  yeah, there  are  a  lot of  other  algorithmical  considerations. Okay.  I  think  most  of  you  have  tried. So  basically,  the  question  is asking  which  are  the following  and  Gaucu  mite  models. So  basically,  this  is more  a  definition  kind  of  thing. So  to  make  sure  everybody understands  is  when  people  talk  about  GMM, Gauciu  mit  model,  we  mean  you  know, this  thing  over  here, all  the  components  be  gi,  right. So  this  question  is  making sure  you  understand  the  terminology. So  we  can  see  that  here. This  of  this  is  exponential,  right. This  guy  is  exponential  distribution. This  is  exponential  distribution. You  may  be  wondering what's  this  thing  here,  right? This  is  the  indicator  function. So  this  indicator. So  it  is  a  it's  basically  going to  be  bigger  than zero  or  is  going  to  be  equals  to  one. I  my  x  is bigger  than  zero  and  zero  otherwise. Be  your  exponential  distribution is  actually  starting  from  zero. And  then  the  rest  are  equals  to  zero. This  indicator  is  to  indicate this  equals  to  zero up  to  here  and  then  you  have  the  exponential. Okay.  Of  course,  this  is  gaussian. You  can  see  that  here  we  are mixing  an  exponential. We  are  mixing  an  exponential  with  a  gaussian. So  by  definition  is  not  GM. Of  course,  but  there's nothing  wrong  with  this,  actually,  right? There's  absolutely  nothing  wrong. Maybe  some  of  your  application  may require  you  to  me  and  exponential  and  gauciu. There's  nothing  wrong  that is  not  a  GMA,  right?  That's  all. Okay.  So  this  one,  you  can  see this  is  indeed  a  GM  MM. So  this  is  this  is  Gaucian, right,  this  Gaucan,  and then  we  have  a  mixture,  right? This  is  one  third  probability, and  this  is  two  third  probability. Right.  So  I  hope  you  notice  this  right. This  guy  is  the  same  as two  with  the  two  here.  Okay. So  indeed,  this  is  Gausia  mixture. Okay. Okay.  Is  tan. Okay.  So  one  question  here, this  Pi  K  is this  Pi  K  is  the  distribution of  the  latent  variable. So  it's  not  the  pi  distribution of  the  parameter, the  model  weight  parameter. Distribution  of  the  at  variable. But  you  will  see  that  in  some  textbooks, People  also  call  it  the  prior  distribution, but  please  make  sure  you  are  not  confused. When  people  say  in  the  textbook,  right, when  they  write  that  this  is a  prior  distribution  that actually  mean  the  distribution of  the  latent  variable. The  latent  variable  is something  you  don't  observe. It's  something  that  you  can  think of  it  as  something  that  has been  chosen  in  advance, the  latent  variable  decides. God  decides  which  cluster which  component  your  data is  coming  from  and  then, you  know,  then  you  observe  the  ads. That's  why  people  also  call it  a  py  distribution, but  the  is a  distribution  of  the  latent  variable. Not  the  py  distribution  of  the  model  way. Don't  be  confused.  Okay.  Coming  back  to  this. Okay.  I  think  most  of  you  will  try  it. If  you  do  at  this  distribution  over  here, if  you  try  to  visualize  it, I  actually  looks  like  this,  right. When  x  is  bigger  than  zero, you  have  a  gusian  that  looks  like  this. So  this  is  your  guia  01. Then  when  x  is  less  than  zero, you  have  a  gi  that looks  like  this  is  wider,  right? I  say  bigger  variance. This  is  Gian  02. This  is  your  PDF.  It  is a  valid  PDF  is  no  negative. The  area  under  the  curve is  exactly  equals  to  one. Be  half  your  galan  happens  to  be  symmetric. This  will  be  exactly  half  and  this  is also  half  the  total  area  is  one. Indeed,  this  is  a  probability  distribution. Is  a  very  funny looking  property  distribution. So  the  question  is,  whether it's  a  mixturre  model  or  not. Yeah.  Why  don't  we  try  to  see whether  we  can  write  it  as  a  mixturre  model. So  maybe  you  can  write  it  in  this  way,  right? We  can  write  in  this  way,  right? This  is  valid,  right. When  X  is  bigger  than  zero, this  part,  if  X  is  bigger  than  zero, this  part  will  go  away,  right? Then  you're  left  with  this. When  X  is  less  than  zero, this  part  will  go  away, then  you're  left  with  this. Ex  getting  the  PDF. Is  a  sum  of  two  things, right,  sum  of  two  components. Okay.  Now  the  question  is  that  each  of these  components  probability  distribution. Remember  your  miter  model by  definition  has  to  do  like  this, some  Pi  some  PDF. Here  you  can  see  that  this  guy  itself, this  is  not  a  PDF,  but  no  problem,  right? We  can  make  it  into  a  PDF  times two  to  eight  then  becomes  a  PDF, B  then  the  area  will be  you  will  integrate to  one  then  multiply  by  half. No.  So  indeed  is a  mixture  distribution,  right? As  a  equal  mixture of  this  strings  looking  distribution,  right? Mixture  of  this  guy and  mixture  of  this  guy,  right? With  probability  half  reach. Okay.  Yeah.  So  it's  a  bit  tricky, but  anyway,  just  for  fun. Okay. Sorry.  Okay.  So,  good. Quite  a  lot  of you  managed  to  get  it,  correct? Yeah.  Okay.  Coming  back  to  this. Okay.  So  now  coming back  to  the  real  business. So  we  have  this  mit  model. We  are  interested  to  basically  to  infer, right  to find  the  optimal  weights  the  optimal  data, which  consists  of  the  pies, as  well  as  all  these  data,  right? As  before,  we  can maximize  the  log  likelihood. Now,  I  have  a  training  data  set. I  take  the  log.  So  this  will  become  the  sum. And  then  notice  this  guy itself  is  the  michel  distribution. This  guy  itself.  So  by  itself  is  a  sum. But  now  is  suing  over  the  k  components. PK  Correct? Okay.  So  there's  a  lot  of  a  summation, right,  a  lot  of  a  summation  over  here. And  this  will  make  it  very difficult  to  find  the  MLE. So  to  find  the  MLE, I  need  to  take  the  partial  derivative. So  basically,  m Going  to  take  the  partial delity  with  respect  to  data. So  the  partial  delity  can  come  inside  here, but  I'm  doing  partial derivative  of  this  whole  thing, which  is  I  need to  differentiate  the  lot  of  a  sum, which  will  be  very  complicated. Let's  see.  Turns  out  there  are  not only  that  there  are  quite  a  number  of issues  related  to  this. For  example,  in  the  GMM  model, if  you  look  at  the  GMM, now  all  these  are  gaussian, Let's  say  we  have the  case  where  it's  a  very  simple  one. You  just  have  the  K  is  unknown, and  then  the  Sigma, the  Sigma  K  has  a  very  simple  form, right  is  just  the  small Sigma  k  times  indicator  function, identity  matrix. So  it's  not  the  most  general  form. So  that's  assume  it  looks  like  this,  right. So  in  this  case, let's  say  you  have  more  than  one  component. So  basically,  for  example, you  have  the  Pi one  x  Okay. Let's  forget  about  multiple  data  points, right? Let's  say  we  only  have  one  data  point and  you  have  two  components. So  we  have  Mu  one  and  Sigma  one, i  plus  i  two  M  two  Sigma  two. And  we  are  trying  to  maximize  this. We  are  trying  to  maximize  this. We  are  trying  to  find  the  values  of  M  one, M  two,  Sigma  one  Sigma  two. Here  we  may  even  simpler. We  assume  the  pies  are  known. We're  just  going  to  maximize this  expression  for  m12  Cima  two. In  this  case,  you  can  see  that. For  example,  here  I  can  choose my  say  my  me  one  to  be  exactly  equals  to  x, the  data  point  that  I  observe,  right? This  is  your  observation  is  your  observation. I  choose  my  mean one  to  be  exactly  equals  to  x. Then  in  this  case, this  distribution  will  now  reduce. Remember  your  gaussian  distribution. This  is  proportional  E  minus  12  Sigma square  x  minus  me  one  square,  right. No,  because  we  don't  solve  the  Sigma  as well,  two  square  square. I  if  I  choose  my  me  one,  of  course, I  don't  sol  what  is  the  true  value  me  one, let's  do  a  pop  experiment. Let's  say  I  I  I let  me  one  equals to  X.  What  is  going  to  happen. Then,  this  will  go  to  zero,  right. So  you  are  left  with one  over  square  root two  Pi  Sigma  one,  right  over  here. Now  Regardless  regardless  of  what  is  this? This  is  some  finite  value. So  fit  negative  value,  this  guy. Basically,  the  overall  expression is  going  to  be  equals  to  one over  Sigma  one  plus  some  other  value. So  finite.  That  only depends  on  Mu  two  and  Sigma  two. In  the  second  expression, it  only  depends  on  u  Cima. Now  I'm  trying  to  maximize  this. I'm  trying  to  maximize  this. Say  over  M  one. To  maximize  this  over  M  one I  just  Cima  one  go  to  zero, Cigma  one  go  to  zero, this  guy  will  go  to  infinity. If  I'm  trying  to  maximize  this, I'll  choose  my  Sigma one  as  small  as  possible. And  then  the  whole  expression  go  to  infinity, which  doesn't  make  sense. You  cannot  have  a  infinite  PDF. Well,  yeah, you  can  approach  to  infinity.  That's  true. Yeah.  But  in  this  example, you  wouldn't  make  sen  sight  because, um  We  know  that the  Cima  one  cannot  be  going  to  zero. Cima  one  going  to  zero  means. I'm  going  to  put  a  very  narrow. This  this  gauing  distribution  will be  just  focused  on this  one  particular  data  points. I'm  going  to  put a  very  narrow  gauing  distribution  there, which  will  not  make  practical  sense. This  is  called  a  singularity in  the  likelihood  function. So  this  kind  of thing  can  always  happen,  right? So  basically,  in  this  case, you  may  think  that  your  optimal  right your  optimal  parameter  gives you  one  gauing  distribution  that looks  like  this  and then  another  gauing  distribution that  is  very  narrow  and  focused on  one  particular  data  point. So  this  is  not  good. But  of  course,  we  don't  have  a guaranteed  way  to  avoid  this. So  what  people  usually  do  is to  use  heuristics,  right. So  this  is  called  a  collapse. So  we  will  usually use  heuristics  to  avoid  this, meaning  that,  during the  optimization  process, when  we  see  something  like  this, we  will  have  to  reset  the  mean. So  this  happens  is  because  of  this,  right. We  are  basically  happens to  choose  the  mean  to be  exactly  equals  to  the  value, or  very  close  to  the  value of  one  single  data  point. So  to  avoid  this, we  will  in  the  optimization  process,  right, we  will  basically  synch reset  it  to  some  other  random  value, right  and  also  reset  the  covalence  that  we found  to  some  random  value and  restart  the  process. Okay.  This  is  something  to  take  note  of. Another  problem  is  a  so  called identifiability  issue. Coming  back  to  the  example  here. So  let's  say  I  have  0.3  with Gaussian  say  01  plus  0.7, with  Gian,  say  225. Okay.  Something  on  this.  So  this  will  be if  we  after  we have  done  all  the  optimization, we  find  that  we  think that  this  is  Pi  one,  right? And  this  is  M  one, this  is  your  Sigma  one,  right. Then  this  will  be  your  Pi  two  this  is  M  two, this  is  your  two,  right?  Okay. So  after  we  have  done  the  otimization, we  believe  that  these  are  the optimal  values  your  MLE. Then  your  friend  decide to  redo  the  whole  thing,  right? Your  friend  takes  the  same  data, exactly  the  same  thing,  run the  same  optimization. But  it  happens  that now  he  gets  a  different  value  0.7. They  are  the  same,  right?  Okay.  These  two are  the  same  results  that. The  two  terms  are  interchange. But  mathematically,  they  are  same,  right? So  your  friend  get  this  answer. Your  friend  says  that M  one  should  be  two,  right? You  think  that  Mu  one  should  be  zero. Your  friend  thinks  that  M  two  be  zero, you  think  that  M  two  be  two. Right?  But  of  both  of  you  are  right,  right? There's  no  no  single  one  right  answer. This  is  what  we  mean  by  identifiable. For  model  to  be  identifiable, it  means  that  if I  give  you  the  two  parameters, this  model  parameter  is  is  is the  Pi  zero  point  s  d.  0125. This  is  your  model  parameter. And  then  your  frames  one  side  this. The  ordering  methods. So  we  can  see  that  down  here, the  data  one  is  not  equal  to  data  two, right  these  are  basic  order  vectors. Data  one  is  not  equal  to  data  two, but  then  the  two  distributions are  actually  the  same, exactly  the  same,  right? For  them  to  be  identifiable, we  mean  that  if my  model  parameters  are  different, then  PDF,  right, my  distributions  has  to  be  different. Then  we  say  that  they  are  identifiable. So  you  can  imagine  if  it's  identifiable, it  makes  life  easier,  right  because  um If  I  give  you  one  set  of  data, it  will  correspond  to exactly  one  unique  distribution. You  know  exactly  what  it  is. Whereas  in  this  case, it  can  happen  that  There  are multiple  different  data  values that  give  you  the  same  distribution. Then  it  is  called  unidentifiable. The  reason  for  unidentifity here  is  actually  very  simple, is  almost  kind  of  CD  kind  of  reason, is  because  your  sum, your  addition  is  commutative,  right? A  plus  B  equals  to  b  plus a,  nothing  march  to  it. But  it  makes  your  model  unidentifiable. So  you  can  permute the  indices  and  you  still get  the  same  solution. Which  means  that  when  you optimize  this  lo  likelihood, you  can  see  that  there  can  be  many inside  this  whole  big optimization  space  for  the  data. So  this  data  lives  in a  huge  optimization  space,  right? There  are  one,  two,  three,  four, five,  six,  six  parameter  space. In  this  six  dimensional  space, there  are  actually  many  solutions,  right, multiple  solutions that  will  give  you  the  optimal,  right. So  there's  no  unique  global  optimal,  right. Which  can  be  a  problem  h.  Usually when  we  want  to  maximize  something, if  there's  one  unique  global  optimal, then  we  can  be  sure. O  algorithm  is  converging to  that  one  unit  optimal. Whereas  if  there  are  multiple one,  then  we  cannot  be  sure, whether  it's  converging  to some  optimal  or  not. Yeah.  Unfortunately,  there's no  solution  to  this  problem. We  just  have  to  be  aware of  it  and  actually  yeah, the  reason  is  very  kind  of  a  bit  CD, I  would  say,  but  be  aware  of  it, you  know,  your  solution  that  you  obtain, may  not  always  be  the  best  one. And  a  simple  way  is  to  permit  it, then  you  will  get  another is  actually  the  same  PDF, but  a  different  solution. I  think  the  last  problem is  the  most  important. Here  we're  trying  to  find  the  MLE for  this  mixture  model. Even  we  take  the  log  likelihood, you  can  see  that  here,  the  lot will  go interchange  with  the  first  submission. This  first  submission  is over  the  data  points. You  have  data  points, and  now  you  have  a  lot  inside, but  the  lot  lot  of  this  whole  submission, which  is  the  mite  PDI  over  here. So  the  red  color  part, right  this  log  cannot interchange  with  this  summation, right  over  here. So  if  I  try  to  find  the  partial  derivative, remember,  you  need  to apply  your  what's that  your  chain  rule,  right? Your  chain  rule  to find  the  partial  derivative, so  you  differentiate  the  log  first  and then  you  will  get  differentiate  the  lot, you  will  get  the  reciprocal, right,  you'll  get  something  at  the  bottom, and  then  you  need  to  differentiate the  inside  this  submission, you  are  going  to get  this  complicated  expression, and  then  to  find  the  MLE, you  have  to  set  this  equals  to  zero, and  then  you  have  to  solve  for this  data in  this  very  complicated  expression. In  this  expression,  because  you have  the  data  at  the  bottom  over  here, and  you  may  have  data  over  here  as  well. The  Ata  case  are  part  of  the  data  as  well. You  are  not  going  to  have a  simple  convex  optimization  problem. This  will  be  a  highly  non  convex  optimization that  is  hard  to  solve. So  this  is  numerically, this  is  a  big  problem. Okay.  But  notice  that if  I  happen  to  know  the  latent  variables. Of  course,  this  is  not something  that  you  know,  right, but  somehow  some  Oracle  tells  you, what  are  the  latent  variables? So  the  latent  variables  are  the  one that  tell  you  which  component, which  of  the  component your  data  is  coming  from. So  instead  of  just Instead  of  just  finding  the  lot  of  the  ads. These  are  your  observed  data  points. So  somehow,  if  I  now  know, the  as  as  well  as  the  corresponding  Z, Z  one  is  the  latent  variable for  the  first  data  point. Z  two  is  the  latent  variable for  the  second  data  point  and so  Then  this  lot  likelihood  function is  much  easier  to  evaluate. In  fact,  this  lot  likelihood  function  is basically  the  same  as  what we  have  done  last  week. Not  much  different.  Again,  we assume  it  is  IID  ID. So  you'll  become  a  submission  of  the  lot  z. And  now  because  the  Z  is  now  known, this  will  be  just  P  of  Z. This  probability  is  a  joint  PDF. I  can  take  out  the  z  first,  right.  So  P  z. This  is  the  probability  of  multiplied by  x  given  Z,  right. And  then  once  this  is  given,  right, then  basically  this  tells you  which  component  is  coming  from. So  I  know  exactly. This  guy  is  basically  from the  z  component,  right? So  this  guy  is  from the  A  Z  depending  on  what's  the  value  of  CI. Okay.  So  for  example, equals  to  one,  right? So  this  will  be  a  one, equals  to  two,  this  will  be  a  two  and  so. So  you  can  see  that now  this  becomes  very  simple, right  I  can  expand  out  the  log. And  then  and  then to  take  the  you  take  the  puzzle  derivative, you  will  again  go  inside  the  sum,  right? So  you  can  then  So it's  the  same  as  before. And  then  we  can  set  the  zero, we  solve  as  before,  right  in. But  unfortunately,  we  don't  have  that,  right. We  don't  know  the  CI. This  is  what  we  hope  to have,  but  we  don't  have  right? We'll  start  with  this. We'll  start  with  this.  Okay.  This  slide the  next  few  slides  are basically  for  the  GM  case, but  there's  nothing  new  here. Is  just  that  basically all  these  ps  changed to  the  gaussian  distribution. So  an  example  to  guys. So  in  the  gaussian  distribution  case, so  you  can  see  we  can  simplify  all  the  way to  here  if  I  do  know  the  Z s.  So  that's  called  to  XI  and  Z. So  for  simplicity,  notational  simplicity, we  are  going  to  let  YI  to  be  I  I. We  will  call  this  the  complete  data. So  the  observe,  right? The  actual  observe  one  is  XI, this  is  what  we  observe. We  don't  see  the  I  right. This  is  later.  So  this is  what  we  call  the  incomplete  data. Complete  data.  Y  i is  the  so  called  the  complete  data, but  we  hope  to  have  the  complete  data, but  we  don't  have,  right? But  if  we  do  have  the  complete  data. So  now  we  are  trying  to  maximize the  lot  likelihood  of  the  complete  data instead  of  the  incomplete  data, it  becomes  very  simple,  right. In  the  Gaussian  case, if  I  do  the  MLE, so  you  can  treat  this  as an  exercise,  you  can  go  back  and  try. You  take  the  say you  want  to  find  the  optimal, the  MLE  of  Pi  K, the  MLE  estimate  of P  K.  You  just  differentiate  respect of  P  K  set  two  to  zero, then  you  will  be  able  to  find  what's  the optimal  What is  the  formula  to  get  the  Pi  case? Similarly  to  find  the  M  case, the  MLE  for  the  mi  case, and  the  MOE  for  the  Sigma, as  you  get  this  close  expressions. That's  the  case  where you  have  the  complete  data. That's  what  we  hope  to  have. But  unfortunately,  we don't  have  this  complete  data. This  is  where  the  EM  algorithm  comes  in. Okay. So  in  the  EN  algorithm, the  assumption  is  that  if I  have  the  complete  data, then  maximizing  the  log  likelihood or  maximizing  the  likelihood  is  easy, right  as  what  we  saw  before. Okay.  So  why  is  the  complete  data? I  can  easily  maximize  the  likelihood. But  unfortunately  we  are not  seeing  the  complete  data, we're  seeing  the  incomplete  data. In  this  case,  is  more general  than  what  I  presented  just  now. In  general,  it  can  be  that your  X  is  just  a  function  of  T  Y. So  we  can  think  of X  to  be  a  function  of  T  Y,  right? So  I  just  happens that  in  the  case  we  are  discussing  here, this  function  is  just  taking the  first  coordinate,  the  first  coordinate. YI.  So  basically  taking  this  guy.  So  D  or  I. But  in  general,  this  algorithm applies  more  generally. If  I  have  some  complete  data,  YI, my  XI  what  I  observed, right  is  basically  some  function  of this  YI  can  be some  complicated  function  of  YI. But  cannot  be  too  complicated  data. And  then  YI  is  the  complete  data and  to  find  the  MLE of  the  complete  data  is  easy. We  can  easily  maximize  it. But  unfortunately,  we  only have  the  incomplete  data. When  we  find  the  MLE, we  are  actually  maximizing the  log  likelihood  of  the  x,  not  the  y. Okay.  This  may  be  hard  to  optimize. The  problem  is  that  y  is  unknown. So  people  are  very  smart. Actually  humans  are  actually  very  smart. Some  someone  came  up  with  the  idea, that  if  y  is  unknown, why  don't  I  instead  of  we  are  trying to  maximize  the  of  this  guy,lihod  of  the  y. But  y  is  unknown. I  can't  compute  the  lilihod. Then  the  next  best  thing  I  can  do  is to  compute  the  expectation  of  thelihod. Right? So  it's  the  same  as  somebody give  you  an  unknown  distribution. I  give  you  a  probability  distribution, a  gauing  distribution. You  don't  know  what  is  the  exact  sample that's  going  to  come from  this  gusting  distribution. I  just  tell  you  that it's  a  gauing  distribution. You  know  nothing,  then I'm  going  to  take  some  samples from  this  gauing  distribution. Of  course,  you  won't  be  able  to  tell me  what  are  the  sample  values. You  just  know  that  it's from  this  guin  distribution. The  best  guess  that  you can  make  is  to  say  that the  sample  is  going  to  can  be approximated  by  the  mean of  the  gausin  distribution. So  here  since  we  cannot  find  the  lot likelihood  directly  because  we  don't  know why  we  are  going  to  compute the  expectation  of  the  log  likelihood. Okay.  But  we  are  going  to  compute the  expectation  of  this  log  likelihood is  also  not  straightforward,  right? I  mean,  what  kind  of expectation  are  we  referring  to? So  here  we  are  going  to. So  this  is  something  that  we  cannot  compute. So  we  are  going  to  take  expectation. And  Okay  Let  me  leave  do  space. We're  going  to  take  expectation  right But  this  expectation,  again, I  need  to  be  able  to  take expectation  otherwise, I  can't  compute  this,  right. I  need  to  be  able  to somehow  be  able  to  compute  the  expectation. I'm  going  to  compute  this  expectation, assuming  that  but  a  assuming  that  of  course, I  know  the  this  is  something  I  observed, and  I  also  know  some  estimate of  the  parameter. Assuming  that  I  know  some  estimate. So  we  can  call  this  a  guess, guesstimate  guestimate  guestimate  of  data. If  somehow  I  have a  good  guess  on  what  this  data  is, if  I  know  the  data, I  basically  know  the  whole  distrition, correct. Data  is  the  model  parameters. Let  me  write  it  down. So  your  your  P  y  given  data. Is  a  Pi  of. Imagine  your  y  is  x  and  z. So  it's  Pi  of  z, multiply  by  given  of  z. Theta  all  the  Ps  and  all  the  ta  Okay. So  if  I  can  guess, if  I  have  a  guess  of  what  the  data,  right, meaning  I  somehow  I know  roughly  what  is  the  what all  the  Pi  values? What  all  the  Ata  values? Then  definitely,  I  can compute  this  PDM,  right? The  PDM  is  given  by  this. Once  I  can  compute  the  PDF,  then  of  course, I  can  find  the  expectation  of  this  lot. Right.  This  expectation  is taken  over  the  y  such  that is  distributed  according  to this  distribution  and  data  hab. Assuming  that  this  data  hab, the  gas  is  the  true  data  value. So  I  can  compute  this  expectation. Yeah.  Then  you  may  be  wondering, then  what  if  this  estimate is  not  correct,  right? This  estimate  is  way  off, then  this  expectation  will  be  totally  wrong. But  it  turns  out  that  this is  where  the  EM  algorithm  comes  in. This  is  the  expectation maximization  algorithm. So  it  turns  out  that  this  is actually  a  good  way  to  find  the  MLE. So  basically,  first  of  all, I'm  going  to  come  up  with some  random  gas  of  theta. So  it  doesn't  matter.  We  come out  with  some  random  gas  of  data. And  then  I'm  going  to  repeat  this  process. I'm  going  to  this  whole  process. In  your  iteration,  I  have  two  steps. One  is  called  the  e  step. So  the  e  step  is  to basically  compute  the  expectation, like  what  we  did  just  now. So  we  give  it  a  name, so  we  call  this  a  Q  function. So  Q  of  data given  the  estimate  from  the  previous  step. QM  is  the  estimate from  the  previous  iteration, and  we  are  going  to  keep  iterating. At  each  iteration,  we  know what's  the  estimate  from  the  previous  one. For  example,  at  the  first  iteration, I  have  already  given  you  what  is  data  zero? This  is  the  initial  guess. Then  at  the  second  iteration, I  would  have  already  completed  Data  one, so  I  can  make  in the  second  iteration  QM is  from  the  previous  iteration, and  this  is  basically our  guess  this  our  guess. So  this  is the  expectation  that  we're  computing, right,  taking  expectation  over  y. Using  the  previous  estimate as  the  guess  or  the  data  of a  lot  of  Y.  Okay. Okay.  Do  expand  it  out, this  means  that  I'm integrating  integrating  this  log  PDF,  right? With  respect  to  this  PDF  that  I  have  guessed. Okay?  And  notice  that this  data  this  is  the  variable  here, this  data  is  the  unknown. That's  why  this  is a  function  in  terms  of  data. For  different  values  of  data, now  we  still  don't  know  what  is the  real  optimal  data  value. So  we  keep  it  as  something that  we  can  optimize. But  to  compute,  the  expectation will  use  the  previous  estimate, plug  it  into  this  PDF. This  PDF  is  now  fully  computable, once  we  have  fixed the  data  value,  which  is  the  data  M, This  PDF  is  fully  computable. Once  we  know  this  PDF, I  can  find  this  expectation. But  of  course,  this  expectation would  be  a  function  of  data. For  different  data  values, you  are  going  to  get a  different  expectation  value. So  by  itself  is  a  function  of  data. So  of  course,  that  means  you cannot  really  go  and  do  it  numerically, you  cannot  go  and  compute all  the  possible  expected  value, right  for  all  the  possible  data  values, right,  that  will  be  very  inefficient. So  that's  why  this will  still  be  in  a  formula  form,  right. So  that  is  in  the  Et And  then  now  in  the  M  step, that's  the  part  that  we are  going  to  optimize. We  are  going  to  optimize  the  Q  function. My  updated  guess  would be  basically  taking maximize  the  queue  function. Okay. Yeah.  Typically,  in  terms  of  implementation, if  the  mixture  model  is  tractable, you  are  actually  able  to  come  up with  a  exact  formula  for  this  que  function. We'll  see  an  example, which  is  the  GMM  data  on. There  will  be  a  close  form  formula that  you  can  make  use  of. For  this  que  function, and  then  in  the  M  stat, you  just  have  to  just just  a  normal  function  in  terms  of  data, you  can  maximize  the  data. And  in  fact,  there's  a  close  form  formula, for  this  data  plus  one. You  don't  even  have  to  go  and manually  maximize,  right? All  the  formulas  have  been  worked  out. So  that  will  be  a  typical  case,  right. But  of  course,  in  a  lot  of  applications, that  may  not  be  the  case, then  this  will  basis  be  a  function,  right? Some  sort  of  function  that  you implement  inside  your  code. And  then  you  have  to  go  in  the  M  step, you  may  have  to  use,  for  example, some  grading  descent  or some  other  general  optimization  techniques  in order  to  optimize this  Q  function  inside  your  code. Yeah,  in  all  cases,  is  the  same,  right? We  always  do  the  etep  then  the  statep, and  we  keep  repeating  this. So  we'll  keep  iterating until  some  sort  of  conversion  happens. Meaning  that,  for  example, we  can  compute,  the  PDF, the  log  likelihood  value  after  each  step, and  once  the  locked  likelihood  value doesn't  change  by  a  lot, then  we  say  that  we  will  stop  there. Okay.  So  this  is  called  the  EM  algorithm. Okay.  Any  questions  here. Before  I  go  Yes,  so. Okay. Okay.  Maybe  this  is  a  good  time to  take  a  short  break  here, so  we'll  come  back  at  8:30, and  then  we'll  go  through  the  GMM  example. I  didn't  I  missed  the Okay. Let's  come  back.  So  you can  see  in  the  EM  algorithm, basically  we  are  iterating  the  E  and  steps, keep  repeating  these  two  steps. And  in  order  to  be able  to  repeat  these  two  steps, the  E  step,  I  need  to  be able  to  find  this  Q  function. So  as  a  reminder, this  is  actually  a  function  of  data. We  don't  so  what  is the  optimal  value  of  data. So  this  is  actually  a  function  of  data. So  that's  going  to  be  not  so  simple,  right. So  you  basically  have  to  find the  expectation  and  also basically  everything  has  to  be  done. You  can  say  that  things  have  to  be  done  in a  in  a  analytical  way, right  because  I  mean, you  can't  really  unless you  do  a  very  huge  database  and  then, you  know,  try  to  compute this  que  function  for all  the  possible  values  of  data,  right? That  would  be  very  inefficient. And  then  in  the  step, this  is  the  part  where  we  will then  make  use  of  the  Q  function, is  a  function  of  data,  I'm trying  to  optimize  it,  right? I'm  trying  to  find the  optimal  value  of  data  in the  stap  It  turns out  there  are  some  examples. Probably  the  ones  that  we  care most  about  is  the  GMM,  right? So  Gausia  Mitchell  model  is  actually a  very  versatile  tool that  can  be  used  in  many  applications. In  fact,  you  can  prove  that  GMM are  universal  in  some  sense,  right?  Um In  a  specific  sense, when  you  are  trying  to  estimate to  approximate  other  distributions, you  can  always  use a  suitable  GMM  to approximate  any  given  distribution, up  to  certain  technical  conditions. That's  why  working  with  GMM  is like  at least  from  the  engineering  perspective, is,  you  know,  is  one  of  the  most  important. So  it  turns  out  that  for  the  GMM, we  can  find  this  que  function  easily. There's  a  formula  for  it, and  we  can  also  find the  optimize  the  que  function  also,  right? So  we  can  actually  derived  formulas  for  this. So  that's  why  now  when  you  go  and  do  at the  Python  packages  that  implement  the  GMM, they  are  all  based  on  specific formulas  that  are  derived,  right, not  using,  you  know, not  doing  this  kind  of  E and  M  iteration  manually. Yeah. So  I  guess  this  is  a  part  where being  able  to  simplify and  dive  mathematical  expression becomes  very  important. Right?  Yeah. So  to  recap,  what  are  we  trying  to  do? We  are  trying  to  find  this  Q  function. We  assume  your  Y. This  is  your  whole  data  set. Now  not  just  Y,  Y. This  is  from  one  to  n  data  points, and  each  data  point  consists  of  XI  and  Z. But  of  course,  this  is  let,  right? The  Zs  are  let  you  don't  observe. The  X  is  the  one  that  you  observe. Okay.  If  we  do  at  this  Q  function, So  we  are  trying  to  compute  the  expectation of  this  log  PDF  of  all  the  Ys, the  whole  data  training  data. Given  Of  course, given  all  the  ads  that  you  have  observed. So  ads  is  the  observed one,  these  are  all  the  ads. And  the  previous  estimate  of  data. So  that's  trying  to  explain this  expression  over  here. So  this  is  the  usual  log  likelihood,  right. So  we  can  write  it  as a  take  the  lot inside  the  submission  of  the  data  points. So  now  you  have  Xi  i. Okay. And  then  we  can  do  one  more  step. We  can  bring the  expectation  inside  the  submission. So Okay. We  ready  actually  have  to focus  on  the  thing  inside  the  summation. If  we  can  work  out  what is  this  thing  inside  the  submission, then  we  just  apply  the  summation  afterwards. Let's  look  at  the  case  of  the  GMM. All  these  things  here,  I'm  not going  to  derive  every  single  thing  in  detail, but  it's  more  of the  supplementary  for  you  guys. But  I  will  go  through  some  initial  steps. Especially  the  otimzation  one I  won't  really  go  through  these are  very  standard  optimization. Step  and  supplement  show  you  okay. So  I'm  not  going  to  ask you  to  you  won't  be  tested  on  this. But  I  think  it's  always good  to  know,  at  least, go  through  these  once  in  your  life, and  then  you'll  become a  better  person  you  have  understood  this. Then  you  will  never  be  need to  make  use  of  this  anymore. But  I  think  it's  good  to experience  at  one  side. Here.  Let's  see  how we  can  simplify  this  expression  here. Okay.  So  we  have  to focus  on  the  one  inside  here. So  this  inside. So  we  can  expand  so this  is  a  joint  probability. This  is  a  joint  PDF, we  can  basically  what's  that? So  before  we  expand  out  the  joint  PDF, let's  look  at the  conditioning  first.  So  okay. So  reminder. If  I'm  trying  to  find  the  expectation  of  So, I  can  write  it  as a  summation  of  the  conditional  expectation  of let's  say  condition  on  z  equals  to k.  And  then  multiply  by the  probability  of  z  equals  to  k.  I  hope all  of  you  remember  this from  your  basic  probability,  right. If  I'm  trying  to  find the  expectation  or  something, I  can  always  break  it  down into  conditional  expectations  and  then sum  it  out  by  multiplying the  probabilities  of whatever  I'm  conditioning  on. Okay.  So  this  is the  expectation  that  I'm  trying  to  evaluate. So  I'm  going  to  do  the  same  thing  over  here. I'm  going  to  condition  on  on  on  Z, So  condition  on  the  value  of  Z. So  probability  of  the  CI equals  to  small  k.  And  of  course, this  guy  will  carry  along. And  then  this  will  become the  expectation  of  whatever  that  is  inside. Now  I  have  condition  on  Z  I. I  have  condition  on  Z  I  equals  to  k. Okay. Okay. So  this  this  thing  we  are  going  to  call this  what's  that  R K.  So  simplify  the  notation. This  is  called  RK.  And  then what  is  inside  here? So  you  can  see  that  this guy  this  expectation  condition on  all  these  things. Now  I  condition  on  z  equals  to  k, that  means  this  z  z  is  now  becomes k.  I  basically  have a  lot  and  of  course,  I  condition  on. This  is  also  now  a  fixed  constant. In  fact,  this  expectation, there's  no  more  expectation because  I  already  condition on  the  values  of  Z  and  on  the  value  of  X. This  is  K.  Let  me  just  write  z equals  to  k.  Under  this  condition. Then  of  course,  this  guy  will  be a  lot  of  the  Pi  Pi  K. Let  me  write  one  more  step. This  is  a  joint  PDF, so  I  can  take  out the  Zi  Zi  equals  to  k.  There's  a  probability of  z  equals  to  k  multiply by  PDF  of  x  given  now  z  equals  to  k, this  will  be  the  A  K. In  this  case,  because  this  is  a  gi, the  At  K  is  M  K  and  Sigma K.  We're  looking  at  the  galiu. Finally,  you  have  a  lot  of Pi  K  gii M.  Okay. And  then  we  have  the  RK  at  the  front,  right. So  these  are  multiply  inside. So  you  can  see  the  RI K  is  multiplying  inside. And  then  we  have  the  two  summation,  right. One  is  sum  over  n  sum  over  i  from  one  to  n, and  one  is  some  over  k  from  one  to  B. So  that's  why  you  have  these  two  double  sum. Now  we  have  simplified  the Q  function  to  be  this. We  can  see  that.  Here  we are  trying  to  find  the  Pi  K. We  just  have  to  differentiate  with  respect to  Pi  K  set  to zero  in  order  to  optimize  for  the Pi  K.  Then  for  each  of  the  Mu  K  and  Cigna  K, we  will  do  the  same  thing  because  this  gi, we  know  what  the  gsum  PDF  looks  like. So  we  can  just  plug  in the  gi  PDF  formula. We  can  simplify  this  part. But  this  RK,  what  is  this  RK? We  can  try  to  come  up  with a  simplification  for  this  RK. This  RK,  remember,  we  it  to  be  equals  to  d. So  this  p  probability  of z  equals  to  k  given all  the  s  and  the  previous  estimate. This  is  called  the  responsibility. It's  called  the  responsibility  probability  or just  responsibility  is  because you  can  see  that  this  RI  K is  multiplied  to  each  of  the  terms  here. You  can  think  of  this  actually  as  a  weight. That's  why  people  call  it  responsibility, is  how  much  weight  is  being assigned  to  this  particular  data  sample, and  to  this  particular  variable  K  K  value. That's  why  it's  called  the  responsibility. To  find  this  responsibility, we  can  use  base,  Base  rule. Yeah.  So  you  have  I  was  two  K.  Multiplied  by. First  of  all,  this  guy I'm  conditioning  on  all  the we  assume  that  the  data  is  IID. Only  the  XI  will  matter  here. X  one,  two, all  the  other  data  points  doesn't  matter. This  conditioning,  we  can simplify  to  condition  on X  because  this  is  the  PDF  for  the  Z. This  one  becomes. Okay. So  this  is  a  base  base. And  why  we  want  to  write  in  this  way? Because  we  know  this is  a  Gau  Mature  model,  right? So  Gau  Mite  model  tells  me  what  is the  PDF  of  XI  given  I. So  that's  the  whole  reason. So  that's  why  I  can  now  writes  this  P. This  is  from  the  previous  estimate. And  then  this  is  the  Gacian, Guan  I  K,  right  Ki. But  this  is  from  the  previous  estimate. And  then  of  course,  the  bottom  will  be  yeah, that's  all  the  possible  expand  out. Pine. Okay.  So  these  are  your  base. Then  we  can  do  some  simplification, the  summation  of  the  R  K,  right? We  call  it  N  K.  Yeah. You  can  see  that  previously, this  will  then  now simplify  to  something  like  this. And  here  we  have  plug  in the  formula  for  the  Gaussian  PDF. Okay.  You  can  see  that the  Q  function  now  has  an  analytical  form. This  is  basically  a  formula that  you  can  write down  and  it  depends on  the  values  of  all  the  Pis and  the  Sima  case, and  the  case,  right? Now  we  want  to  optimize  this  kind. We  are  trying  to  optimize this  que  function  here. This  optimization  is  not a  unconstrained  optimization. So  is  constrained  by the  Pi  K  has  to  be  some to  one  has  to  be  no  negative, and  the  Sigma  K  has  to  be  possibly  definite. Remember, your  covariance  metric  side  has  to  be possibly  definite  cannot be  some  random  matric. Yeah.  We  need  to  o  find the  optimal  value  of  data, which  is  the  Pi  and  the  mise  and  the  Cima  K, subject  to  the  constraints. Yeah.  This  part,  I'm not  going  to  go  through  in  detail. So  more  supplementary  for  you  guys, but  I  hope  you  remember  how  to  do  this. This  is  from  your  calculus  as  well. Remember,  if  you  are  trying  to  maximize some  function  subject  to  some  constraint, right,  you  have  to  form this  thing  called  the  lagrangen,  right? So  you  do  the  lagrangin, and  then  you  optimize  the  lagrangin, and  then  you  make  sure  that  your  solution, right  satisfy  the  constraints,  right? Okay.  So  this  is exactly  what  we  are  doing  here. We  form  the  largarngin, then  you  take  the  partial  derivative, we  solve  for  it, and  then  the  lagrange  parameter, is  typically  something  that  you can  find  from  the  constraint  right because  your  solution  has  to satisfy  the  given  constraints. So  by  using  that,  then  you  can  find the  value  or  the  lagrange  parameters. That's  how  you  how  we derive  the  estimate  for  the Pi's  actually  very  simple, is  basically  the  n  case  divided by  n.  And  then the  estimate  for  the  l  case is  basically  given  by  this  formula  here. So  you  can  see  this  responsibility multiplied  by  the  X and  then  take  the  average. And  finally,  the  Sigma,  right? The  Sigma  will  be they  say  given  by  this  guy  over  here.  Okay. Okay.  So  for  GMM, you  can  see  that  it  turns  out  that The  solution  is  basically  in  analytical  form. So  every  step  has  formulas. Basically  in  the  GMM.  Okay. The  full  EM  algorithm for  GMM  at  the  beginning, we  will  initialize  some  Pi  zero, some  Mu  zero,  some  Sigma  zero. So  cho  some  random  ones  that  make  sense. For  example,  your  e  zero, you  cannot  you  have to  be  positive  definite,  right? You  have  to  choose the  positive  definite  matric. So  with  that,  you  can  compute the  log  likelihood  value. So  that's  at  the  beginning, and  then  we  are  going  to  iterate.  The  E  step. In  the  E  step,  you  can  see that  we  just  to  find  the  final  solution. All  these  solutions  just  actually  make use  of  the  value  of  RK, all  these  RK  values, as  well  as  n  K  value. In  the  E  step,  we  are  basically just  computing  the  IK  values. Don't  need  to  actually  do  any  expectation. In  the  E  step,  we will  simply  compute  the  RI  K  values according  according to  this  formula  that  we  derive. This  formula  make  use of  the  previous  estimates, you  just  plug  everything  in, plug  everything  in,  and  then  you can  compute  the  RIK. In  the  etep  we  just  computing  RIs. And  the  N  K  N  K  are  summation  of  RIC. Then  in  the  M  stat,  that's  the  part where  we  are  optimizing,  but  of  course, we  don't  need  to  go  and  manually optimize  because  we already  know  the  solution,  right? The  solutions  are  given  here. In  the  M  stat,  The  optimal, the  next  update  is basically  given  by  these  three  formulas  here. After  the  tep  we  can  update the  lot  likelihood  function  value. You  can  compute  the  new  lot  function  value and  we'll  keep  repeating  this  process. And  we'll  repeat  it  until the  lot  likelihood  function  value, very  similar  from  one  step  to  the  next  step, right  I  smaller  than some  small  epsilon  value, then  we'll  stop  that. Okay.  So  you  can  see  it  actually  for  GMM, that  is  actually  very  simple. So  there's  some  this  Guin  demo  Fa  foo, right  code  over  here that  you  can  take  a  look. Yeah.  In  this  case,  it  is  actually creating  two  synthetic  clusters  over  here. So  you  can  see the  basic  two  synthetic  clusters, and  then  we  initialize  the  gi two  gusans  at  these  two  corners. This  is  the  initialization. And  then  you  can  see  when  we apply  the  GMM  bass applying  the  formulas  in  multiple  iterations. At  the  beginning  s  this,  then  comes  this. After  three  iterations  slight. After  five  iterations,  the  galcan  do  studies. After  16  iterations,  right? So  we  can  see  its  basic approach  to  what  you  expect. At  the  beginning,  you expect  that  the  optimal  solutions  to be  one  gain  here  and  one  gc  here. So  you  can  see  it  is  converging to  the  one  that  you  expect. In  this  code  over  here,  All  right. The  main  part  is  this  applied  EM. This  is  from  a  function from  this  GMM  library. If  you  go  to  the  GMM  library  and  do at  the  applied  EM  function,  right? You  can  see  that  this is  exactly  what  we  were  saying,  right? We  are  basic  just  computing the  response  by  probability,  right. And  then  computing  the  log  likelihood. Sorry.  We  are  doing the  M  stat  M  stat  is  basically computing  those  optimal  updates  right? Just  compute  the  optimal  update. And  then  compute  the  lot  likelihood. Maybe  we  can  even  look  at the  what's  the  function  for  the  M. In  the  stat,  so  we  can  see  this  is exactly  what  we  went  through  just  now. The  Pi  K  is  given  by  n  K  over n.  The  Mu  K  is  given  by  this  guy, so  it's  basically  implementing this  formula  over  here. This  guy  over  here,  and  then  the  S  K  also. You  can  actually  do  one to  one  correspondence. You  can  see  the  implementation is  basically  the  formulas  derived. All  right. Yeah.  So  GM  everything  is actually  implemented  in  the  library  already. So  definitely  nobody  is expecting  you  to  reimplement  it  yourself. But  I  guess  the  whole  point  here, going  through  this  exercise at  least  once  in  your  life,  right, is  to  know  why are  we  doing  in  this  way,  right? This  is,  you  know, from  this  EM  algorithm  and these  are  things  that have  been  derived,  right? Okay.  That's  fine. Okay.  I  think  probably most  of  you  have  tried. So  this  a  straightforward  question. In  the  E  step,  right,  we  are trying  to  find  the  expectation  of  this  log, but  we  cannot  compute  it  directly, so  we  have  to  do  some  estimate,  right. So  we  are  actually  computing the  expectation  by  assuming  that the  distribution  is  equals to  the  one  where we  use  the  previous  estimate. So  this  data  is  from  the  previous  estimate. So  will  be  number  three. So  we  are  taking  the  PDF  of  Y, but  we  respect  using  the  previous  data  n. Okay.  So  there's  a  question  here.  Maybe. Okay.  So  for  the  MLE,  right, we  are  trying  to  maximize the  likelihood  of  the  tivation, right  with  respect  to  data. But  for  the  EM,  what  are  we  trying  to  do? So  EM  is  actually  trying  to  approximate  MLE. Okay.  So  maybe  I  didn't  emphasize  that  point. The  whole  point  is  that  to  find the  MLE  for  the mixture  distribution  is  difficult, right?  We  saw  before. To  find  the  MLE for  this  mixture  distribution, we  have  to  optimize this  guy,  which  is  difficult. So  is  difficult. So  that's  why  instead of  trying  to  optimize  it  directly, we  are  using  the  EM  algorithm to  approximate  the  MLE. Okay.  So  I  I  haven't  in fact,  it's  not  proven, right,  so  I  didn't  this  point, the  EM  algorithm  is just  an  approximation  of  the  MLE. There's  no  guarantee  that you'll  find  the  MLE. But  there  is  one  guarantee  is  that  you will  always  increase the  lot  likelihood,  you  will  find  a  data. When  you  do  the  iteration, your  data  will  only  get  better  and  better. And  your  lot  life  hood  will only  increase,  monotonically  increase. So  you  will  increase,  you  will  converge, but  you  will  converge  to a  local  optimal,  right? I  may  not  converge  to  the  global  optimal. The  global  optimal  is  the  MLE. But  this  M  algorithm  is guaranteed  to  converge  to  some  local  optimal, which  may  not  be  the  global  optimal. And  this  is  unfortunately  this  is  converging to  a  global  optimal  is something  that  nobody  can  guarantee,  right. No  matter  what  algorithm, this  kind  of  numerical  algorithm,  Yeah. You  cannot  guarantee  that  it will  convert  to  global  optimal. The  best  that  we  can  cope for  is  convert  to  some  local  optimal. Usually,  if  you  want  some  better  result, what  people  usually  do  is to  now  use  multiple  different  data. You  choose  one  data,  Ota  zero, you  run  the  EM,  get  one  result. Then  you  try  again, do  another  Data  zero,  we  get  another  result. You  do  a  few  runs and  then  choose  the  best  one. So  that's  one  typical  approach. This  EM  is  basically  approximating  the  MLE. In  the  EM  algorithm,  Yeah, we  are  integrating  this  lot  PY  given  data. Using  this  PDF,  which is  the  P  K.  The  P  K  is  the  one  inside  data. Pi  K  is  a  parameter that  we  are  trying  to  optimize. Is  the  Pi  K,  right. We  are  not  using  P  K  here. We  are  not  using  P  K  in  the  expectation. The  P  K  appears  inside  the  parameter. Okay.  And  that  is  the  one  that  we  are trying  to  optimize,  right  in  the  M  stack. So  to  be  more  concrete, you  do  at  the  EM  algorithm,  right? Sorry,  you  look  at  the  GMM. You  can  see  that  in  the  e  st, the  so  called  Pi  k  is basically  the  one  from  the  previous  estimate. It's  not  the  current  one.  The  current  one is  the  one  that  we  are  trying  to  optimize. This  is  using  the  previous  estimate to  compute  all  these  responsibilities, and  then  this  Pi  n  plus  one  k, this  is  the  one  that  we  are  optimizing. So  this  is  now  given  by  this. Okay. Yeah.  I  will  depend  on  the  initial  value you  chose  basically  because it's  converting  to  a  local  optimal. You  the  initial  value  may  give you  a  different  local  optimal. Yeah. One  way  to  overcome  this  is to  to  run  a few  times  and  then  choose  the  best  one. Okay.  Yeah,  very  good  questions. Any  more.  Okay.  Okay,  if  not, let's  continue  with  this  clap. So  this  s  will  be  simple  right stands  or  what  M  is  maximization. Okay. So  I  think  ya, most  of  the  at  correct,  right. So  we  are  trying  to find  data  to  maximize  this  function. So  not  minimize  and of  course,  not  set  to  zero, right  Unless  we  say  we take  the  partial  with respect  to  data  set  to  zero,  right. But  we  are  actually  maximizing. Okay.  Yeah,  this  EM  GMM. This  GMM  solving  the  GMM  using the  EM  is  also  can be  applied  to  this  thing called  the  K  means  algorithm, which  is  to  do  clustering. In  this  case,  in  the  K  means, We  are  basically  given  a  lot of  data  points,  many  data  points. And  then  what  we want  to  do  is  to  cluster  them, find  suitable  clusters  so  that those  similar  data  points are  grouped  together  in  the  same  cluster. Okay.  Here,  we  are going  to  assume  that for  this  K  Mings  algorithm, we're  going  to  assume  that  K  is known,  is  known  in  advanced. Okay.  Of  course, if  you  don't  s  what's  the  value  of  k, you  have  to  basically  try different  values  of  k  and  then  at  some  point, you  choose  the  one  that that  will  stop  basically  you  need  to  compute. There's  this  loss  function  that  you  compute, and  then  you  will  choose  the  value of  k  whereby  the  loss starts  with  the  two  off. So  I  I  choose  k  to  be  very large  with  the  same  number of  as  the  data  points  of  course, your  loss  will  become  zero, will  always  decay. But  this  is  not  what  we  want. So  we'll  choose  a  suitable  value  of k  so  that  at  some  point  it doesn't  decay  very  fast  anymore. Yeah.  That's  how  people  usually  choose  the K.  How  does  this how  to  work  out  this  k  means  algorithm. Basic,  we  are  going  to  assume  that the  Sigma  k  is  just  Sigma  square. So  it's  the  same  sigma K  for  all  the  components, and  then  we  assume  that  the  Pi  Pi  k  is equals  to  one  over  K  basis  uniform for  the  latent  variables. Only  the  K  is  something  that  is  unknown, that  we're  going  to  try  to figure  In  the  E  step, we  are  not  going  to  compute the  responsibility  as  before, but  we're  going  to  do  this  thing  called the  EM,  art  em. Meaning  that  we  are  going  to the  responsibility  to  be  equals  to  one, this  responsibility  is  basically  assigning the  assigning  weights  to each  data  point  I  to  which  cluster  k, we  are  going  to  let  the  full  weight to  be  assigned  to  a  particular  cluster. If  this  cluster  happens  to  be  the  one that  has  that  is  closest  to  your  data  point. If  this  cluster  in  terms  of the  previous  estimated  mean  is  the  closest. So  for  example,  So  for  example, I  have  all  these  data  points. So  I  have  estimated  my  Mu  one  m  to  be  here, and  then  the  Mu  two  m  to  be  here. So  now  I  do  at  one  particular  data  point. So  I  compute  the  distance of  this  data  point  to the  previous  mean  that  I  estimated, and  then  I  choose  the one  that  is  closer  to  it. So  in  this  case,  in  this  case, I  will  be  choosing  this  one this  will  be  b  cluster  one. I  will  assign this  particular  data  point, right  to  cluster  one. Then  I'll  repeat  the  same  process. For  every  single  data  point  a, I'm  going  to  assign  it to  one  of  the  clusters, depending  basically  choosing  the  closest  one. For  each  observation  as, find  the  cluster  center  closest  to  it. And  then  my  Q  function  will  be according  to  the  gausin distribution  will  basically  look  like  this. Then  to  maximize  the  Q  function  in  the  stat, we  just  have  to  maximize  this. Yeah. You  can  go  and  derive  it. The  formula  will  come  out  very  simple. The  M  K  plus  one, the  new  cluster  center  will  be  just  simply the  average  the  average of  all  the  points that  are  aside  from  this  cluster. In  this  example  here, if  this  is  my  two  original  clustered,  right. So  then  you  will basically  look  something  like  this. After  the  assignment,  you will  basically  look  something  like  this. And  then  I'm  going  to  update. Now  this  will  be the  average  find  the  new,  right? The  new  one,  the  updated  Mu  one  plus  one. And  down  maybe  this  one  is the  Mu  two  n  plus  one. So  the  updated  cluster  center. So  then  we  keep  repeating  this  process, right  until  we  have  some  sort  of  conversion. Okay. So Yeah. This  is  an  example  here. Yeah.  I'm  not  going  to  run  it. But  this  is  my  original  data  points. Now  when  I  do  the  K  at  the  beginning, let's  say  I'm  trying  to  partition  into  one, two,  three,  four,  five,  five  clusters. So  you  can  see  that  at  the  beginning, this  is  the  random  choice. So  you  will  partition into  these  five  clusters. And  then  okay. So  you  can  see  this  is  the  at  each  step, right  you  will  update  the  centroids, the  Mu  case,  right, the  Mu  case,  update, then  assign  points  to  each  of  the  clusters. So  you  can  see  the  color  region  will  change, and  then  update  the  centroids  again, then  reassign  the  points, so  you  can  see  here the  color  region  and  this  one  is  different. Until  at  some  point  you  converge. Here  because  I  chose  five,  five  clusters. This  is  what. Yeah  this  part  haven't  converged  yet. Then  if  you  run  it  long  enough, you  can  see  that  you  converge in  this  way,  is  something  that  you  expect. You  can  play  around  with  it. You  can  also  different  k  value, number  of  clusters  and  see  what  happens. Then  let's  move  on  to  as  we  saw  before, MLE  last  week  we  saw  for  the  MLE, we  also  have  the  MAP if  we  have  some  additional  prior  knowledge. Here,  similarly, we  can  also  do  MAP  estimation. MLE  estimation  for  the  mixture  model. Here  we  are  trying  to  optimize  the  posterior. Here  we  are  optimize  the  posterior. By  this  is  given  by  this.  So  this  is  B. In  the  MLE  case, basically  simply  optimize  this, we  apply  the  EM  to  optimize  this. But  now,  of  course, we  have  a  prior  distribution  here  as  well. So  we  do  at  the  log. We  can  do  the  same  as  what  we  do  before. But  now  except  we  have  this  log  P  data, which  is  the  prior  distrition. We  have  a  plus  log  P  data. We  can  still  apply  the  EM  here. In  the  EM  algorithm  in the  E  Step  is  the  same  as  before. Same  as  before.  The  only  difference is  that  in  the  M  stat. When  we  maximize  the  Q  function, you  will  have  to  add  the  P  data as  over  here,  in  your  stat. That's  the  only  difference. This  is  the  EM  algorithm  for  MAP. Why  we  want  to  do  the  MAP Because  in  some  cases, Adding  these  prior  distributions  to your  parameters  can  help your  algorithm  to  converge. This  is  an  example  over  here, especially  when  the  dimension of  your  x  is  very  large. When  your  dimension  becomes  very  large, you  are  actually  optimizing  in a  large  high  dimensional  space. Your  dimension  of  X  determines your  dimension  of  the  mu  case as  well  as  your  Sigma  case. I  become  a  high  dimensional  space  or optimization  becomes  more  difficult. Then  you  may  encounter numerical  issues  due  to, for  example, singular  matrices  and  things  like  this. But  using  the  MAP  part, right  basically  the  MAP  allows you  to  add  a  prior  belief,  right, which  means  that  it  allows  you  to constrain  your  parameter  s, your  me  case  and  cig  markets, constrain  them  to  be  in  a  nice  space, right  so  that  during your  optimization,  right, it  doesn't  go  and  convert  to something  that  gives  you  a  singular  matrix, right,  you  know,  and  something that  would  cause  numerical  errors,  right. So  you  basically  use  a  prior  distribution  to constrain  what  your  me  case and  C  market  can  look  like. Okay. So  you  can  see  that  in  this  test,  right, The  vertical  actually  is showing  you  the  fraction  of  times whereby  the  EM  algorithm  for  this  GMM  fails, it  doesn't  give  you  a  good  result, a  reasonable  result,  basically, it  will  just  diverge  or  give  you some  very  big  value, for  the  covariance  metric. As  a  dimensionality  increase, then  the  fraction  actually going  to  approach  to  one. Then  definitely  applying  the  MLE, or  the  EM  algorithm  directly  to find  the  MLE  is not  going  to  be  workable,  right. On  your  dimension  is  above, say  50,  50  dimensions. Whereas,  you  can  see  that  by  choosing the  pier  distribution  p data  in  a  suitable  way, we  can  actually  basically keep  it  to  almost  zero. Okay.  So  you  can  successfully  use the  EM  algorithm  by adding  this  log  P  data  here, and  applying  the  EM  algorithm. In  almost  all  the  cases, you  are  able  to  find  convert  to a  suitable  value  for  the  Mu  case  and  Sigma. Okay.  And  then  let  me  see. Okay.  Yeah.  Last  but  not  least, let's  look  at  a  actual  real  example. W  is  my  most. Yeah.  So  previously, when  I  t  this  call  some  students,  ya. Keep  asking  me,  what's  the  use  of  all  these, what  is  the  real  world  use? Indeed,  I'm  going  to  show you  like  a  real  world  use. This  is  this  Gaussian  mixture  model is  actually  widely  used  in  industry. So  don't  think  that  industry, nowadays,  we  are  just  using deep  neural  networks  and  all  these  things. In  fact,  in  my  previous  life, I  was  actually  in  a  investment  bank. We  were  all  using  this  kind of  traditional  signal  processing, GMM  models,  and  all  that. Because  these  are  proven  to  work  very  well. In  this  You  can  do  at this  Market  GMM  Supter  Notebook. So  we  are  using  the  Yahoo  Finance as  to  extract  data  from  there. And  what  we  are  doing  here,  right? Okay.  So  basically,  I'm analyzing  this  VDA  stock. And  I'm  looking  at  the  lot  written  as  well  as the  volatility  of  the  closing  price for  the  amphDo  stock. But  of  course,  if  you  work  in  the  i  band, right  we  will  use  a  lot  of  other  factors. This  is  just  to  illustrate,  right? Using  only  two  factors, lot  written  and  volatility. So  that  is  easier  to  visualize  otherwise, I  can't  clock  a  high  dimensional, you,  scatter  clock,  right. So  that's  why  we're keeping  to  only  two  factors  here, but  in  the  actual  application, you  can  we  typically you  will  use  a  lot  more  factors. Okay.  Here,  this  is  basically  yeah, getting  the  closing  plis and  completing  the  lot  return  and volatility  over  multiple  days,  right? In  fact,  over  multiple  years. I  don't  remember. Yeah.  I  think  starting  from  2015, all  the  way  to  a  few  months  ago, when  I  run  this  code. Okay.  So  this  is a  snaps  of  the  first  tank  rows. And  this  is  the  scatter  plot  of the  lot  written  versus  the  volatility. Basically,  in  this  application, we  are  trying  to  decide the  so  called  at  this  time, whether  it  is  a  bull  market  or  a  bear  market. The  bull  market  is  basically  characterized by  less  volatility,  but  higher  return. A  bear  market  is  basically  characterized by  lower  return,  but  higher  volatility. We  are  trying  to  use  the  Basically now  there  are  two  components  here, you  can  see  that  this  data basically  consists  of  two  components. On  one  component  is characterizing  the  bull  market, and  one  component  is characterizing  the  bad  market. And  of  course,  nobody  will  be  is  going  to tell  you  in  advance  whether right  this  particular  day, is  it  a  bull  market  or  a  bad  market,  right? So  this  is  something  that  we cannot  observe  directly,  right? It  is  a  latent  variable that  we  cannot  observe. And  so  for  various  reasons, we  want  to  decide  whether it's  bad  or  bull  market. And  typically,  this  information  can  then  be used  in  other  analysis,  right  to  decide, you  know,  to  do  your  portfolio  optimization, to  do  recommendations  to your  clients  and  things  like  this. Okay.  So  how  can  we  then  try  to  estimate, right,  the  bank  bull  market. We  have  a  model,  but we  don't  have  the  parameters, weight,  the  model  weights  of  the  model. We  just  know  that  it consists  of  two  components. We  have  a  Pi  one  and  Pi  two, and  then  we  have  a  Mu  one  Sigma  one, M  two  Sigma  two. These  are  the  two  Gaussian  distributions, we  don't  know  the  exact  parameters. So  we  can  use  the  historical  data to  estimate  all  these  parameters, and  then  and  then  we  can  Yeah. So  we  can  actually  do some  clustering  as  well, right  to  cluster  all  the  data  points  and all  the  dates  into whether  it's  bull  or  bear  market. Yeah.  You  can  look  at  the  basically, you  can  see  here  we're  fitting the  Gausin  mite  model  according  to  the  data. And  this  is  the  final  result from  your  EM  algorithm. There  are  two  means  and two  coerence  matrices  here, and  you  also  have  the  two  weights  here. And  then  some  visualization. We  can  see  that  the algorithm  work  quite  well, basically  all  the  low  volatility  data  points is  classified  as  the  bull  market. The  high  volatility  data  points  is classified  as  the  bar  market.  Okay. The  return  probably. You  can  see  in  this  data, the  ban  b  in terms  of  the  return,  is  not  so  obvious. The  market  one  is the  one  with  a  tighter  range  of  return. Then  the  ban  market  one  is  the  one that  actually  have  a  lot  of  negative  returns, but  because  of  high  volatility, it  also  had  some big  positive  returns  as  well. And  then  finally,  using  this  model, we  can  now  classify, basic  whether  it's  bed  or  blue according  to the  invidious  stock  closed  price. You  can  see  it  makes  sense. The  red  one  is  the  one  that  where the  stock  prices  are  decreasing. But  then  you  can  see  some  cs. This  is  where  there's  high  voit, this  is  classified  as  the  bad  market, is  the  bad  market,  and  then the  green  one  will  be the  so  called  the  bue  market. Okay.  So  yeah. So  you  can  take the  notebook  is  provided right  in  the  amd  you  can  take  a  look. And  this  is  really one  of  the  real  world  applications, right  of  your  Cosi  Miter  model. Okay.  Summarize.  Yeah. In  general,  your  mixture  model consists  of  basically  multiple  components, weighted  by  some  probability  weights. In  the  most  general  case, all  these  components, in  fact, can  have  different  probability  distributions. Need  not  be  all  gis  need not  be  all  explanation  all  that. You  can  have  different  distributions together  depending  on  your  application. Okay.  But  one  of  the  most  important  one  is the  Gusel  Mature  model because  it  is  widely  used, and  also,  as  I  mentioned, in  fact,  most  engineer  application, using  the  GM  Gali  Mature  model  is  sufficient to  model  almost  anything that  you  can  think  of, because  it's  some  universal  property. And  then.  So  because  this  miter  model, right  finally  the  MLE  is  intractable. So  we  need  to  make  use  of this  EM  algorithm  to  approximate  the  MLE. And  the  EM  algorithm basically  consists  of  the  E  Step  and  M  stat. And  we  also  talked  about the  K  means  algorithm, which  is  a  special  case  of  this  EM  algorithm. And  then  finally,  right  we  talked  about the  EM  for  MAP,  right. So  this  is  where  you  just  add the  lot  of  P  data, right  the  lot  prior  distrition  to  your  Mtep. Okay,  good.  There  are some  practice  problems  here, and  then  there's  also some  background  reading  here. This  is  the  part  where  we can  actually  prove  that the  EM  algorithm  will continuously  give  you  something  better. Basically,  the  log  likelihood at  each  iteration  of your  EM  algorithm  can only  increase,  it  will  not  decrease. Which  means  that  you  will  converge to  some  local  optimal. May  not  be  the  global  optimal, but  you  will  converge  to  some  local  optimal. So  there's  a  proof  here. And  I  think  that's all  for  today.  Any  questions,  right? Last.  Okay.  Good.  EM  algorithm if  the  different  gaussian share  a  common  mean. Let  me  see. Yeah. There's  no  reason  why  you  wouldn't  work. Yes. I  you  know  in advance  that  they  share  a  common  mean, then  you  can  always  constrain it  by  but  you  have to  derive  the  equations  from  now, especially  in  the  optimization  part. Now  you  are  using  some  additional  constraint. So  you  need  to when  you  do  this  optimization,  right, you  need  to  set  the  constraint  here and  then  your  lagrange  will  be  different, and  then  solution  will  be  different. So  this  is  the  part  that  you need  to  take  care  of.  Okay. Okay.  Any  other  questions? Okay,  I  think  that's  it. Yeah.  So  Yeah.  I  think  that's  it. Just  in  case  you  don't  know  there's a  so  called  self  paced  session,  in  your  clap. If  you  want  to  it's the  same  questions  as  what we  go  through  in  the  lecture. If  you  want  to  retry  again, you  can  always  try  it. Okay.  I'm  not  sure  whether you  can  see  the  solution  or  not. You  can  me  know. But  it's  actually  the  same  questions. Thank  you.
