Good  afternoon  and  evening  to  everyone. Welcome  back  to  our  lecture  in  week  seven. Before  we  start  our  lecture, I  would  like  to  make  another  announcement that  will  be  posted  tomorrow. So  O  Part  one  is coming  towards  the  final two  lectures,  including  today. So  the  lecture  eight, which  falls  on  Week  eight, that  will  hold  another  quiz  for  CA  two. So  basically,  CA  two. The  quiz  format  is  the  same  as  before. It  is  online  format, and  we  have  to  obey  the  same  rules  as  before. And  the  number  of  questions  is also  similar  to  CA  one as  much  as  I  don't  now. So  mainly  on  concept plus  some  calculations  like  before. And  concept  holds  more  mas  than  calculations. Similar  to  CA  one. And  I  hope  you  can  prepare  well. Week  eight  means  after  the  recess  week. That  means  is  two  weeks  later. Slightly  different  from  CA  one, CA  two  is  50%, which  is  a  bit  higher  exam final  exam  is  higher. Is  60%.  After  my  lecture, that  means  from  week  nine  onwards, it  will  be  for  remaining  five  weeks, you  will  be  conducted  by Professor  Simon  Le  Professor  Simon  Nell. And  he  will  hold  CA  three  some time  towards  the  end  of his  lecture,  which  is  week  12. For  graded  tests,  similar  to  before, we  are  not  allow  for many  items  like any  smart  devices  listed  here. So  please  get  ready. The  scope  for  CA  two is  five  to  seven,  including  today, that  means  from  Lecture  five that  we  during  lecture five,  we  did  our  CA  one. So  that  lecture.  That  means those  learning  methods for  regression  for  classification, and  then  lecture  seven  is  penalized  learning. So  all  are  on  learning. You  need  to  know  the  basics about  some  computations  in  learning. Do  some  practice  based  on those  examples  given  in  the  lecture  slides, and  also  those  behind the  book  would  be  enough. But  don't  worry  about  those computational  or  more  difficult  problems  in the  book  because  they  are  not meant  for  online  hand  calculation. All  right.  So  the  format is  very  similar  to  C  one, so  you  know  what  to  expect  now  or  CA  two. So  it's  on  which  is  after  the  recess  rate. Okay,  I'll  post  this  back again  into  the  announcement  tomorrow. And  again,  you  need  to follow  the  lockdown  browser. And  I  suggest  I  suggest  most  of you  are  already  familiar with  the  lockdown  browser,  right. So  I  think  you  can  use  the  trial  to  check the  trial  quiz  that  we've  done before  you  to  check your  online  during  when  you're  at  campus. Last  week,  we  have a  little  bit  more  to  cover, so  we  shall  complete  it  today. For  lecture  six, I  would  say  the  basic  concepts for  these  three  is  most important  and  a  little bit  on  this  broader  concepts. Broader  concept  will  be  on  the  later  part, which  will  be  covered  today. We  will  not  ask  you  to do  very  complicated  calculation, but  basic  calculation  in  the  first  few  parts, and  also  include  lecture  five. We  jump  straight  to the  generalized  framework. We  have  covered AUC  based  learning  and  TR  learning, total  rate  learning,  and  both  of them  using  a  trick  or using  the  atic  loss  function, and  the  atic  loss  is  shifted  offset. That's  a  basic  idea. That  los  enable  you  to  use only  one  arm  to  do  the  learning. The  loss  is  only  on  one  part, i,  more  high  or  less  high. I  never  go  into  the  other side  because  of  this  upside. This  is  a  basic  key  idea in  this  total  error  rate, TE  R,  and  AUC. They  all  use  the  same  idea. Now  we  want  to  link up  because  we  see the  solutions  are  very  similar, somewhat  similar to  what  you've  learned  before since  Lecture  three,  regression  problem. We  can  link  them  up  using  data. The  basic  concept  is  using  data, movements,  or  some  manipulation  to  the  data. Can  create  more  data or  move  some  data,  or  whatever, transform  the  data,  then  we  can  link all  these  methods  together, including  the  regression. This  and  a  few  other  methods in  the  D.  They  are  co  related. That's  a  basic  idea  for  the  last  part, and  we  will  move slightly  faster  to  move  forward. First,  we  introduce the  method  of  data  transformation. Suppose  you  have  one  set  of  data. And  this  one  set  of  data,  for  example, you  have  one  set  of  data  suppose  have two  classes  like  this. You  want  to  classify  these  two  groups. In  order  to  make  this  data  more  generalized, you  will  have  this  limited  set. The  basic  idea  is  you  create  more  data. You  create  more  data. You  basically  you  can  duplicate this  data  to  one  more  set  like  this, and  you  duplicate  this  data  to  one  more  set. That  means  you  translate the  whole  set  of  data. This  translation  is  one  of transformation  that  we  are  talking  about. We  can  introduce  a  transformation  to the  original  data  the  original  data, and  we  use  a  tube to  indicate  a  transformed  data. Not  only  the  multiplying  the  data, you  can  also  add  the  data, add  some  other  numbers. Adding  some  numbers  or some  values  to  the  original  data provides  an  offset. That  means  you're  moving  the  data  up and  higher  and  lower. By  adding  A.  All  these  are  vector  values. Transformation  allows many  kinds  of  linear  transformation, even  including  maybe  if  you know  how  to  formulate  t, you  can  formulate  rotation also,  rotation  of  data, or  just  skewing  of  data, you  make  it,  make  it  faster, that  kind  of  transformation. All  the  posi  just  in  general, we  use  the  transformation  T. Now  we  are  not  dealing directly  with  the  data  x  alone. X  is  a  raw  data  after  your  pre  processing. We  can  also  manipulate  on  the  transform  data. That  means  transformation  of  transform  data. There  are  two  levels  of  transformation  here. P  is  For  example,  pomal  transformation. Then  T  is  those duplicating  or  translation  of  transformation. We  can  apply  these  two  libels  of  translation. In  general,  we  use  P  tube to  indicate  transform  data. P  tube  means  there  are  two  kind  of. One  is  a  polymal  or  kernel  transform, and  then  after  that,  you  duplicate the  data  in  a  linear  fashion. There  are  two  ways  two  livels of  tramulation  embedded  in  this  P  tube. With  this  idea  in  mind, we'll  generally  treat the  lineal  model  of  transform  data. So  transform  data  can mean  transform  only  the  original  set, or  you  can  add  up new  transform  data  to  this  original  set. Basically,  we  allow  we can  allow  more  transformation K.  Suppose  you  one  time means  you  difficult  ones  and add  up  with  the  original  one, and  you  have  two  sets. Then  if  k  is  three,  K  two, you  add  two  times  more. You  can  get  more  data. This  is  one  way  to  increase the  data  pool  for  your  training. Actually,  in  literature,  there  are  many  ways of  manipulating  the  data, and  one  common  way  is  to  add  noise  to  data. You  can  add  noise  to  data  and  you  form a  noisy  training  data  and added  with  the  original  data and  you  get  a  bigger  pool. And  that  actually  restrict  the  training more  towards  this  bigger  set. More  data  means  more  restriction  to the  training  because  that's freedom  to  fit  other  space. That's  one  way  to  get  good  generalization. That  is  also  inspired our  motivation  to  dally  transform  the  data. Remember  our  AUC  base  AUC  is  optimization, so  we  reformulated  to  AAC  area above  the  curve  in  sad  under to  do  minimization  problem. So  the  AAC  minimization  problem is  to  minimize  the  cost  function. Original  is  only  this  term two  summation  of  the  opposite  classes. But  now  we  can  add some  k  number  of transformation  into  the  data. That  means  your  data  is k  times  this  original  pool,  is  much  more. So  you  have  another.  The  computation  is  high. But  then  because  you  have  more  pool  of data  and  more  spread  data, if  your  transformation  is  spread  out, then  we  can  expect better  prediction  power or  generalization  capability. This  is  a  basic  idea. So  even  with  two  or  three  summations, we  can  see  the  solution  still  boils down  to  the  similar  structure  as  a  AC, as  that  in  AUC. The  solution  to  the  transform, we  call  it  P  A  UC, transform  AUC  is  basically  more  precisely, this  is  A  UC  because  it  is the  p  minus  minus  p  plus. A  AC  is  p  minus. A.  A  UC  is  reverse  P  plus  minus  p  minus. But  whatever  this  is  just  a  name  to call  this  mode  of  the  optimization. The  basic  idea  is  to  add one  loop  with  transform  data. You  can  see  all  these  p  are. They  are  modified  with  more  data. Using  this  structure  of  solution, we  can  try  to  link  up all  the  solutions  we  learned so  far  and  including  a  few  others. So  we  to  link  up  between the  AUC  and  AUC  and  t  AUC. AUC  and  transform  AUC, means  we  added  data  and  transform  AUC to  link  up  straightforward because  you  just  remove  the  transformation. It  becomes  back  to  AUC. To  remove  the  transformation, we  can  basically  make the  transformation  simpler, not  the  general  matrix T.  We  basically  use  the  scaler  to multiply  every  components  of this  p  for  the  transform. That  means  we  make  a  simpler  transformation. And  with  that  manipulation, we  just  replace  the  transformation  with various  scaling  factors  of the  p  minus  and  P  plus. We  can  use  Veta  one, gamma  one,  for  P  minus  and  P  plus, and  Veta  two  gamma  two  for also  the  other  submission of  p  minus  and  P  plus. So  with  this,  we have  basically  an  added  added  set  here. K  become  Beta  one  and  Beta  two, the  k  value  in that  transformation.  All  right. And  With  that,  we  can  see  that  we are  we  are  changing the  basic  transformation  from a  more  complex  one  to simpler  one  into  just  scaling  values. We  can  write  back  the  AUC  solution. By  changing  some  of these  beta  and  gamma  values. By  setting  some  Beta  and  gama  values  to  zero, and  some  to  one,  we can  get  back  to  the  sound  formation. A  simpler  way  is  basically  just  that  tqu  to nit  matrix,  identity  I  matrix. N  plus  or  n  minus  plus. That  transformation  also  will  boil down  the  T  AUC  to  AOC. This  is  very  similar  in  that  way. So  I  think  you  do  not  need to  memorize  this  complicated  structure. So  just  need  to  know  the  rough  idea  of transformation  and  setting  to  some  identity, you  go  back  from  T  AUC  to  AOC. And  from  T  A  C  going  to  TE R.  We  need  to remove  because  there  are  two  submission. The  basic  idea  is  to remove  one  submission  by  using the  different  values  of Beta  and  Gamma  values.  That's  all. By  one  more  step  of  changing, we  can  remove  one  submission. By  removing  that,  then  you  will get  you  will  get  back to  by  setting  some  values this  gama  and  Beta  to  zero  and  one, you  can  get  back  to  the  T  solution. That's  a  basic  idea. The  idea  of  introducing beta  and  gamma  values, especially  allow  us  to  set  different  values. And  this  different  setting  of Beta  and  Gamma  values  to  one  and  two  zeros, you  can  set  the  different  components  to zeros  and  maintain  some  components. Then  some  will  disappear. Then  the  double  summation will  fall  back  to  single  summation. Both  are  single  summation. That  is  a  basic  idea,  and do  not  need  to  worry about  the  complicated  equations, basic  idea  is  to  show  that  relationship. Next,  for  T  AUC  to  FD, FLD,  we  are  not  covered  in  our, but  basically,  this  is co  linear  discriminant. Function.  Fish  discriminant  formulation was  actually  I  think at  least  around  100  years  ago. And  it  was  one  of the  beautiful  formulation  in  terms  of classification  because the  goal  is  to  classify. They  formulate  the  solution in  terms  of  csation. We  can  find  relation  between our  AUC  or  T  R  related  to  this  FLD  basically. Again,  We need  a  more  complicated  transformation  here. But  I  think  you  don't  have to  really  worry  too  much  about  that. The  main  thing  is  we  want  to add  we  go  back  to  the  original  form. We  want  to  make  one  of these  terms  to  become  an  average  value. Those  manipulation, those  manipulation  here  is try  to  make  one of  the  term  becomes  average  value. Those  U  one  and  U two  basically  can  become  some  kind of  summation  of  summation then  divided  by  the  total  data  size. That  becomes  an  average. With  that  manipulation, the  formulation,  the  solution eventually  becomes  the  original Positive  and  negative  classes  of  data minus  by  their  mean  value  or  average  value. This  this  the  solution becomes  a  mean  standard  solution. Without  this,  without  this  mean  value, that's  original  TR  and  TR  related  to  T  AC. The  difference  between  TR  and FLD  is  inclusion  of  this  mean  value. TR  is  non  centered  data. Or  non  normalized  data, and  FLD  is  normalized  by  centering. That  is  to  say,  for  example, you  use  data  here  to  process  your  TR. This  is  processed  directly. If  you  want  to  use  FLD, is  the  same  method,  you just  subtract  the  data  by  the  mean. That  means  the  data  is somewhere  moved  to  you  found  a  new  center, the  mean  in  value  here. So  data  is  processed under  this  normalized  range. Data  value  didn't  change. The  main  change  is  upset  by  me. That's  all.  The  result is  almost  exactly  the same  except  some  numerical  difference. That's  the  main  concept  you  need to  capture  between this  idea  for  the  dispute  parts. Then  as  we  have  changed  before, the  t,  if  you  want to  put  all  the  weighting together,  the  weighing  together, we  can  form  n  plus  and  n  minus  matrices  and form  one  matrix  m.  This  n  is basically  is  a  weighing all  the  positive  and  ative  samples by  respective  class. Divided  by  the  size  of the  each  class.  These  are  the  weights. Basically,  K  R  boils  down  to weighted  square  or  LS  or  Lc. Basic  is  a  form  of  weighted. And  F  LD  is  weighted and  mean  centered FLD  solution  is  this. You  need  to  add  this  in  between from  that  data  manipulation. And  basion  influence  here  in  statistics. We  usually  talk  about likelihood  and those  maximum  likelihood,  whatever. Those  likelihood  functions  are  based  on density  or  data  distribution. The  likelihood  of  training  data  and  use those  likelihood  and  each  point of  data  is  approximated  by  some  function, and  you  form  a  big  function. These  probabilities  are  multiplied together  to  form  a  big  function. Basically,  in  statistics, thehod  function  is  probability of  the  occurrence  of  the  output, and  the  output  is  dependent  on your  data  x  and  also  your  parameters, and  this  probability  put together  for  every  point  of  training  data, the  density  function  that  you  know, then  you  can  compute the  overalllihod  of  alpha  data. Okay.  And  if  you  use the  gauchan  to  approximate every  data  point  suppose, you  have  many  data,  each  data you  approximate  using  one  gauchan. It  can  be  further  the  data. This  is  one  dimensional  data. And  you  put  this  density  multiply  together. Gau  multiplied  by  Gauan,  is  still  gauan. Gau  sum  up  also  gauan.  This  is  multiplier. Usually  you  take  lot  and  it  becomes  sum, in  our  calculation,  but we  are  not  going  to ask  you  to  calculate  this. You  learn  this  in  other  class, more  from  statistical  approach. The  sum  of  the  product of  all  this  will  become the  overall  probability. This  is  overall,  and  this is  individual  data  individual  I. Each  of  them  multiplied. This  is  a  typical  likelihood  formulation, and  if  you  use  a  g, this  is  a  gauchion  function, then  it  can  be  expressed  in  this  way. The  parameter  estimation basically  the  mean  value  of  this  parameter, bar  is  of  this  parameters. Is  estimated  to  be  this  covariance plus  some  covalence  in both  and  multi  by  this. You  can  see  that  this  is very  similar  to  what  you've learned  in  your  lecture three,  the  regression. Just  if  you  ignore  this  because  this is  something  like  I. You  can  think  of  it,  something  like a  regularization  diagonal  metric. Basically,  this  is  our  overdetermined  system. There  is  a  the basic  linear  regression  is  related  to  this. This  is  proven  already  well known,  long  time  ago. For  TR,  because  we  have  two  terms, So  TR  has  a  solution very  similar  to  the  linear  regression. TR  is  basically  a  splitted  linear  regression. We  can  think  about  two  guion instead  of  one  single  guion. Linear  regression  is  one  single  bunch of  guion  multiplied  together. TR  differentiate  into  two  bunches of  this  probability,  which  separate  calc. That's  a  basic  idea. TR  basically  you  have two  errors  error  square. Each  error  can  be  modeled  by  one  guion. Basically  it  is  a  two  groups  of  gauion. That  is  a  basic  solution, and  that  can  be  formulated  in two  groups  of this  DO  function  age  for  outcome. Ti  is  basically  more  for  classification. The  output  basically  there  are two  groups  of  result  y  plus  y  minus. We  can  split  them  into  two  groups  and then  basically  modeled  by two  guan  we  can call  it  a  dual  guion  regression. And  if  you  want  to  estimate  the  like  before, then  we  can  use a  base  rule  and  compute  the  likelihood  of this  occurrence  and  also  multiply  by the  pro  property  and  divided  by  the  evidence. And  basically,  we  can ignore  the  evidence  because  it is  basically  a  normalization  factor. Then  we  just  need  to  optimize  the  top  and which  can  be  broken down  into  two  groups  or  go  as  I  said  before. The  solution  is  almost  the  same  as  before, but  we  have  two  groups  of  COVID.  Two  groups. You  can  see  that  T  R is  related  to  dual  guion  region. Dual  groups  of  gauion  assumption. Guion  is  one  guion  for every  points  of  data  and  multiply  together. T  just  separate  them  into two  classes  and  dual  guion. Basically,  it  just  says  that the  mean  value  of this  dual  guan  assumption is  similar  to  our  T  R  solution. To  summarize,  because  we use  Beta  and  Gama  and  the  mean  values, Beta  and  gama  is  basically  for  scaling. Scale  your  data  multiply  by one  or  not  multiply  by  one  by  zero. Translation  is  to  translate to  mean  center  or without  centering.  All  right. With  this  setting,  if  you  set correct  values  of  Beta and  Gamma  and  the  mean  values, you  can  convert  from  one,  for  example, you  start  from  AUC, A  set  to  one  and  no  mean  value. Then  by  different  changes  of the  Beta  gama  values  and  the  mean  values, you  can  convert  to  different  models. All  these  different  methods can  be  related  by  setting  the  beta, gamma,  and  U  and  V  values. It's  very  nice. It's  just  like  periodic  table, we  link  up  everything  together. But  of  course,  that's  not that  huge  as  periodic  table. This  is  just  a  small  set  of  table  to relate  to  many  classical  methods. With  this  we  conclude the  last  week's  lecture. The  main  concept  here  is  you don't  have  to  worry about  details  of  equation, but  the  concept  of  the  idea,  the  basic  idea, and  concept  of  those  data  manipulation,  data, translation,  and  stretching  or transformation  and  create  more  data. Then  after  creating  more  data, you  cut  down  some  of  the  portion  of  the  data, you  falls  back  to  AUC. And  you  cut  more,  you fall  down  further  to  TR, and  you  cut  more,  you fall  down  to  regression. And  TR  by  changing some  averaging  values  or  mean  center  values, you  become  the  FLD  fi  discriminant. Then  the  regression  itself  is  very  related  to the  classical  basion  based of  a  maximum  likelihood  estimation. That's  a  basic  idea  that  you  need  to  know  for this  Any  questions?  All  right. If  you  have  any  questions,  we can  talk  about  it  during  the  break. So  now  we  move  on  to  lecture  seven, basically  what  you've  learned  until  now  from Lecture  three,  five,  six. You  basically  one  important  thing. Linear  systems  of linear  equations  and  the  solution. Basically  this  set  of  equations, you  have  three  kind  of  solutions  equal determine  over  and  under  determine. Very  commonly, we  encounter  only  over  and  under. Very  seldom  we  equal either  a  lit  more  or  a  bit  less, but  our  data  are  not  so  balanced in  terms  of  the  dimension  and  the  data  size. Either  this  bigger  or either  a  tall  matrix  or  fat  matrix. There  is  a  basic  care you  learn  in  lecture  three, and  it  carries  forward  to  five  and  six. Lecture  four  basically  introduced just  different  scoring  function  to formulate  into  the  solution  in  five  and  six. Now  lecture  seven  also does  not  move  too  much  away. We  are  still  doing  the  same  thing as  over  under  the  di  system. So  basic  idea  still  the  same. But  because  the  lit  move  from different  directions  and  when if  you  read  separately, they  all  looks  different,  but  actually, they  also  fall  back  to  our previous  lxure  t.  Okay. So  We'll  go  back  to the  classical  method  of these  norm  and  regularization. Basically,  this  correspond  to overdetermined  system, and  this  cv  to  underdetermined  system. Still  go  back  to  lecture  three. This  classical  one  under the  L  two  no  minimization. L  two  norm  means  we  want  to  include a  regularization  reach  term. That  means  we  want  to  minimize the  two  no  square. Two  norm  and  square. This  basically  is  the  term added  to  this  thing. This  term  is  penalized. By  adding  this  term, this  is  a  penalty  term. To  your  over  under  determined  system. Adding  these  two  norm does  not  complicate  things  much, but  it  solves  a  lot  of  practical  problems. It  helps  in  generalization. That  means  it  helps in  prediction  more  accurately. We'll  illustrate  how  it  goes,  right? These  are  easy  and  you need  to  know  how  to  do  calculations. And  we  move  on  to  the  bridge. Bridge  is  we  are  using  a  norm  of p  norm  into  a  part  of  P.  Okay. And  use  a  p  norm  as  reason, and  we  will  motivate  that.  All  right. And  then  finally,  we  just so  how  the  penalty squeeze  the  parameter  sizes, the  trend  of  this  parameter  of  the  penalty. For  bridge  regression,  I  would  say  also, you  just  need  to  know  the  concept, and  you  need  to  know  too much  of  the  mathematical  details. Details.  I'll  give you  the  reference  to  three, but  it's  not  mandatory,  just  optional. But  you  need  to  know  the  basic  concept, how  and  why  you  want  to  do  that. You  don't  need  to  derive  the  whole  thing. First,  what  is  penalize  learning? Basically  is  a  modeling  framework that  adds  a  penalty  term. To  the  learning  objective. We  have  a  lost  function with  some  parameter  theta. That's  the  main  thing  we  did  previously. Then  you  add  some  penalty  like the  two  norm  square. You  see,  we  have  this  thet t.  Ad  that's  called  risk  regression. Risk  regression  is  a  penalized  learning. We  introduce  back  again  because  we  want  to introduce  other  kind  of norms  instead  of  two  norm. And  this  penalty,  discourages overly  complex  or  unstable  models. Minimizing  this  parameters  means trying  to  make  the  models the  model  parameters  have  smaller  values. You  minimize  the  loss,  the  error, and  you  also  minimize  the  weight  of these  the parameter  values.  Minimize  together. When  this  parameters  has  small  size, remember  our  model  usually  looks  like  this. When  this  each  of these  terms  inside  the  model, correspondingly,  you  have  a. Sorry.  Y  e  go  the  P,  P  transposed. This  P  transpose,  if  you  have a  small  values  of  the  values  multiplied  by  P, every  point  nomal  term  or  every  nel  term, then  your  upper  Y  will  be  smaller. If  you  have  a  small  change  in  p  values, the  Y  changes  a  little  bit. But  if  you  have  some  of the  values  are  very  big, p  multiplied  by,  a  small  change  is  P, the  Y  will  change  a  lot. This  value,  this  value  will Affect  the  estimation  when you  have  a  small  change  in P.  When  the  tab  is  small, then  small  change  in P  will  not  cause  so  much  change. That  is  related  to the  stability  of  your  output  y. We  do  not  want  the  prediion  to  swing  a  lot. Usually,  our  data  do  not  change  overnight. Data  change  quite  smoothly.  Like  temperature. I  will  not  suddenly  go  to  1,000  degree. It  may  change  point some  degree  in  that  way  and  going  up. We  do  not  want  the  value  to  sit  up  to  1,000 prediction  in  temperature  if  you  put  a  big. That's  the  main  concern  of  penalized  sing. You  have  came  across  this  several  times. Today,  Remember, previously,  we  introduced  the  model, the  impact  of  different model  in  lecture  three, and  we  introduced  the  impact of  loss  function  in  lecture  four. Now,  we  introduce  the  impact of  this  term  today. Okay.  Basically,  some  books  like to  use  data  for parameter,  many  books,  all  right. But  we  use  just  the  bill to  indicate  its  weight. So  weight  is  one  kind  of  data. Data  is  more  general.  Okay. So  the  weight  is  basically  one  kind of  one  kind  of  data  maybe. Okay.  Why  do  we  need  the  penalization. First,  minimizing  the  training  error alone  often  leads  to  overfitting. You  minimize  the  or  too much  based  on  a  small  training  set. Basically,  if  you  have  enough  parameters, you  can  squeeze  the  training  area  to zero.  In  actual  case. In  actual  case,  if  you  have very  complex  model  on  this  direction, your  training  area  can  go  to  zero. Why  you  can  go  to  zero? You  can  go  to  under  determined  system. Under  determined  systems  is  perfect. Your  model  has  more  parameters  than  data. Under  the  determined  system. You  can  have  zero  training  error, and  that  can  become  overcting. That  overfitting  is  not  good  for predicting  new  data  other than  the  training  data. We  need  to  strike  a  balance. Usually,  the  behavior  of  the  new  data goes  along  with the  training  data  until  certain  level, it  goes  up  because your  representation  power  of your  20  set  is  only  limited  to  this  zone. If  your  data  are  going  out  of  this  zone, Then  this  part  cannot  predict  well. You  fit  only  this  zone. This  zone  predict  well  for  new  data  here. But  for  new  data  outside, usually  it  goes  up and  more  further,  you  go  up  further. Unless  you  increase  your  training  data to  cover  more  and  more. Deep  learning  works  well  nowadays because  our  data  are  not  this. Our  data  is  already  so big  beyond  our  human  knowledge. So  not  easy  to  overfit because  our  brain  only  have  our  knowledge in  this  data  all  into your  social  media  and also  into  inside  the  Google  page. At  of  free  resources  there and  those  are  beyond  our  knowledge  already. To  overfit  unless  you know  more  data  outside  that  we  don't  know. That's  why  works  because our  data  is  big  enough. Now  we  suppose  we  still assume  that  we're  limited  data  for  training. Then  the  case  of  overfitting outside  I  mean  overfitting this  inside  training  data  is  still  high. The  probability  of  that.  All  right. So  The  need  for reducing  ing  is  basically  to  penalize your  weight  so  that if  you  do  not  predict  very  far  away. As  we  said  just  now. Complex  model  can  capture noise  rather  than  the structure  and  penalty  acts as  a  form  of  regularization. Generalization  is  another  word  to say  prediction  power,  prediction  accuracy. Some  word  saying  about that  related  to  test  accuracy. This  is  another  illustration. Suppose  you  this  set  of  training, limited  set  of  training  data. If  you  use  a  very  complex  model, you  can  see  that  the  model actually  tries  to  fit  the  boundary. And  this  is  perfectly  splitting  the  data. This  can  be  if  you  have used  a  very  complex  model so  that  the  underfitting  occur, and  that  can  actually  mean we  are  training  some  kind of  underdetermined  system, you  get  the  perfect  accuracy. But  the  truth  is,  we  don't know  the  the  test  data, but  suppose  the  blue  points, test  data  could  be  here,  here,  here. But  blue  data  never  go  here. Never  go  up,  around  here. And  rate  data  also  never go  far  below.  Those  are  test  data. A  more  ideal  case  will be  use  a  separation  like  this. You  can  see  the  very  much  difference about  the  accuracy  of  result. If  your  training  data  is  not  representative, not  representing  the  whole  space  you  want, then  overtraining  you  fill up  the  details  of  this  gaps. These  are  actual  gaps. But  you  have  more  data,  you fill  up  all  those  gaps  already. Then  there's  no  space  to  fit  the  data. Then  you  can  have  a  green  curve and  the  green  curve  is  what  we  want. Okay  this  scenario  in  two  dimension. As  I  see  this  curve  here, so  the  blue  curve  is  the  training  error, the  training  error  can  go very  small  until  zero. Until  zero  means  you  are  approaching an  underdetermined  case  that you  have  more  parameter  than  data, then  your  cos  you  can  fit  everything. The  test  error  does  not  happen  that  way. And  even  for  very  big  data is  still  the  case.  Okay. H.  The  basic  application of  this  penalized  learning  is  we  use it  already  in  risk  regression. Penalized  linear  regression. So  we'll  risk  regression  here. There's  another  regression called  Lasso  regression. This  was  invented  by  the  Stanford  group. They  published  a  very  famous very  well  used  book. Using  the  L  one  penalty. We'll  introduce  more  about  L  one  penalty. The  ordinary  dica  focus  only  on  data  feeding, penalized  regression  adds  coefficients. That  means  coefficients  are  also  penalized, constraining  the  coefficient  to  grow  big. That's  a  basic  idea,  and these  common  examples  we  have  done  this  one. The  result  is  to  improve the  prediction  accuracy, or  another  is  called  improve  generalization. That's  explain  a  bit for  both  L  two  and  L  one  non  penalty. In  this  plot  here, these  two  parameters  w12, or  you  can  call  it  in  general  the  one  d  two, this  two  D.  In  one  dimension, one  dimension,  you  can  also  plot  it. This  is  top  p, top  view  of  of  this  constraint. In  three  D,  suppose you  plot  in  three  D  like  this. It  looks  like  inverted  pyramid. Pred. There  are  four  corners.  I  think my  prem  is  not  really. This  correspond  to  the  L  one  num. And  it's  difficult  to draw  the  risk  regression. It's  basically  a  quadratic, but  it's  a  round  space.  In  three  D. All  right.  And  in  one  d  is basically  just  in  one  D  is  simple, which  is  you  can  see a  sharp  inverted  pyramid  cross  section. And  the  rai  is  basically occur  that  you  have  seen  before. This  is  this  con  this  circle  correspond  to contours  if  you  cut if  you  cut  the  pyramid  cross  section, and  you  can  see  this  this  pyramid and  also  a  circle. For  this  one.  I  draw  rate  for  this  one. This  rate  one  is  this, this  circle  is  this  c.  If you  cut  more  levels, you  get  a  smaller  circle,  you  cut  more, you  get  lower  circle,  smaller  and  small. Section.  These  are  called contos  at  each  level. So  this  contro  correspond  to  the  path. If  you  squeeze  the  parameter  smaller, if  you  squeeze  this  parameter  size to  smaller  value, or  you  squeeze  the  parameter correspond  to  the  objective  function. So  Maybe  let  me using  some  data  to illustrate  and  you've  seen  this  data. Suppose  this  is  y  that  you want  to  the  target  data,  y. And  correspond  to  x. So  suppose  this  y  is  changing with  we  don't  know, but  this  is  behaving  in  this  way. This  is  what  we  created. We  know  perfectly  why  y. In  general,  we  do  not  know  why. We  have  to  estimate  y  by using  our  model  plus  error. This  is  the  usual  process in  just  three  that  we  introduced. Suppose  we  know.  We  created  this  data. Suppose  we  use  aortic and  a  linear  function  and  you have  seen  that  the  outcome is  a  cost  function  like  this. The  solution  for  best  sub  is  somewhere  here. In  the  middle  here  is  zero  point  something. It's  not  zero  because there's  still  some  error. But  this  is  a  minimum  error. The  error  the  sum  of  error  is  not  zero, it  does  not  touch  zero. But  it's  a  minimum  error  when  you  minimize. You  have  found  the  tube that  give  you  the  smallest  error. That's  what  we  usually  saw in  overdetermined  system. In  geometric  idea  here. Now,  suppose  we  end a  no  If  you  add  a  L  two  numb, that  means  you  are adding  something  like  this. If  you  have  two  square,  add  together, you  still  get  a  two  convex  shape, add  together,  it  still  convex. I  still  look  like  a square  am,  still  look  alike. And  you  have  also  over  global  minimum. This  happened  when  you  use rich  regression.  Is  regression. Now,  if  we  use  so, the  magenta  curve  is  shut  corner. What  happened  if  you  add  this  two up  and  what  happened  to this  total  cs  function. The  result  is  the  css  function  change  shape. Because  of  the  sharp  corner, not  just  the  corner,  the  edges, the  edges  affect  the  solution, edge  in  high  dimension. In  this  low  dimension,  you  can  see on  the  tip  affect  the  solution. You  can  see  the  solution  is  here. Can  you  see  the  difference? The  solution  becomes  more  near  to  zero. This  is  more  near  to  zero. The  area  may  or  may  not  be  near  zero, but  then  the  solution will  be  moved  towards  zero, because  the  deal  is smaller  after  minimizing  the  num. If  you  minimize  using  reach  L two  num  also  nearer  to  zero. In  all  cases  because  you're  penalizing, the  deal  will  be  smaller. Suppose  we  minimize  a  more  complex  function. Suppose  we  use  a  two  layer  neon  network, two  layer  neon  network. This  cost  function  looks  like  this. The  solution  original  solution may  be  like  this,  maybe  around  here. The  minimum  point  may  be  here. We  don't  know.  I  will port  further  than  you  know, or  maybe  no  solution, you  can  go  very  high  value. That's  the  original  solution. Now,  we  add  the  one  norm  to  this  function. We  add  to  the  original  cost  function, and  you  can  see  you  change the  total  cost  function into  another  shape  because  it's  nonlinear. You  can  see  that  in different  cases  of  setting, if  you  use  moderate and  strong  regularization, the  black  one  is  very  strong. You  increase  this  value  very  high, high  Dumba  values,  lower  numb  values. And  zero  number  value. Okay.  T  c.  You  can  see  the  solution  changes, o  the  solution  was  very around  here  and  lower  number, the  solution  was  here,  this. Then  when  very  high  Dumba, the  solution  may  be  one  of  these  two. I  think  it's  more  like  this one,  near  to  zero. It  depends  on  how  heavy  is  your  Dumba  value. Adding  that  term,  change the  total  cost  function. If  you  add  this  L  one  norm,  O. The  solution  may  be  equal  to  zero. In  this  case,  is  zero  for  very  high  value. That  means,  squeeze  the  parameter, this  dimension  to  zero. If  you  have  a  man  12  to  many  dimensions, some  dimensions  because  you use  the  sharp  corners, the  edges  may  form  the  solution. These  edges  may  correspond  to one  of  this  12  or  whatever, and  one  of  this,  some  of  this  may  go  to  zero. That's  a  rational  between this  behind  this  setting. And  this  is  called a  Lasso  Lasso  solution.  This  is  the  Lasso. And  the  second  motivation or  application,  ture  selection. Remember,  just  now,  we see  that  some  of  this  t  can  go  to  zero, and  when  some  of  the  bills  survive, you  can  see  that  we  can  remove some  value  some  of  the  bills. Those  survive  the  bills are  the  selected  vaable. It  can  be  used  as  feature  selection. L  as  can  be  used  as  a  feature  selection. We  illustrate  more  data. For  example,  after  you  solve, suppose  this  is  W  one, W  two,  three,  four,  and  so  on. You  can  see  some  parameter  has  high  values, some  have  small  values. If  you  apply  so,  this  happen. But  if  you  apply  risk  regression, those  will  remain  relatively  high  in  some s.  It  will  not  go  to  so  low  to  zero. Which  means  all  features  are  there, but  still  have  big  and small  because  of  their  importance, but  they  will  never  squeeze  to  zero. If  squeeze  to  zero,  all are  almost  all  goes  to  zero. We'll  show  some  illustration. If  we  apply  Lasso, we  select  only  these  three. So  selection.  All  these are  squeezed  to  zero  during  the  optimization. And  finally,  the  main  motivation is  the  new  net  inverse  problems. So  the  penalty  is  also  called weight  decay  because  we're squeezing  the  weight  to  very  small. And  because  most  of  the  learning  or  in  fact, all  of  the  learning  methods,  that  I  know  of. Basically,  it  is  a  solving  inverse  problem. We  need  to  solve  the  inverse of  some  kind  of  coherence. I  we  formulate  in  this  inal  way. This  inverse  because  of the  matric  can  be  not  so  fat, not  so  tall,  it  can  be  singular. Then  you  need  to  add  some  weight  decay, which  is  the  regularization factor  in  as  requation. All  the  motivation  actually they  are  pointing  to  the  same  thing. Penalization,  incorporate pro  knowledge  into  learning, the  pro  knowledge  of the  penalize  which  parameter, and  these  are  very  essential in  all  the  learning  process. To  summarize  this  part  the  penalize  learning, extend  the  standard  epical  risk  minimization and  control  the  complexity so  that  we  can  improve  the  generalization. It  can  support  sparsity  provided you  know  how  to  use  the  norm  to  use. For  example,  L  one  norm  or  num. Lg  norm,  we  do  not  learn, but  lg  norm  is  select  the  parameter, not  by  mean  by  select, just  select,  which  one  throw  away? You  need  algori  to  do  selection. We  can  have  p  norm that  we  are  going  to  learn. This  is  foundational  concept in  modern  statistical  learning. Maybe  we  take  a  break  and  we  will  go slightly  faster  in  order to  complete  the  remaining  part. The  equations  are  a  bit  complex, but  not  to  worry  too  much, about  the  detail,  more  about the  concept  that  I  introduced  a  lot  just  now. And  those  concepts  will  be  strengthened  using this  complicated  equation  to show  you  with  data. Take  a  break.  Let's  take  five  or  10  minutes. You're  welcome  for  any  questions. Okay. Let's  get  back  to  the  lecture. The  purpose  of  coefficient  drinkage, is  also  known  as  coefficient  sage. Covisent  can  mean  the  parameter  values or  values  or  its  values. Or  coefficient  values. We  use  this  two  terms  quite  interchangeably. The  purpose  of  strning this  coefficients during  the  training  process, during  the  learning  process  or  minimizing the  cost  function  is  to  i  generalization. This  is  particularly  useful when  you  have  small number  of  training  samples. When  the  data  is  not  that  representative  and is  safer  to  use  a  small  size of  parameter  to  represent  this  group  of  data. So  when  it  comes  to  other  zones, the  value  does  not  fluctuate  too  much. The  complexity  of  a  predictive  model has  direct  impact  on  the  predictivity. Predictbty  is  the  word refer  or  refers  to  regression, predictibty  of  a  model. Generalization  usually for  classification  for  classifying  data. This  predictivity  and  generalization are  quite  similar  in  meaning. But  for  some  community, they  like  to  use  more  general  term for  re  predictby, or  generation,  and  some mixed  together  the  usage. Apart  from  the  model  structure, model  structure  is  another  important  area apart  from  the  parameter  size. The  model,  how  flexible  is the  model  is  a  structure  itself. Deep  learning  emphasize a  lot  on  model  structure. Our  This  improvement  in learning  in  deep  learning also  rely  not  only  on  data. If  you  use  the  Valina  network, very  difficult  to  train this  big  data  to  days  accuracy. They  modify  even  the  structure, not  only  reducing  the wet,  the  structure  itself. But  we  are  not  focusing  on  that  structure. It's  another  important  aspect  to  go. That  structure  actually  can be  tailored  towards  your  data. If  your  structure  feed  your  data, you  can  learn  quickly. Basically  structure  is related  to  our  gradient. How  steep  is  your  gradient  fitting  your  data? Apart  from  the  model  structure, which  is  important  aspect, the  size  of  the  coefficient is  also  very  important. And  essentially, cosion  synclg  can  be formulated  as  a  constraint. Constraint  means  a  sub  problem, minimizing  this, subject  to  this  constraint  or minimizing  as  the  main  objective  function, and  then  subject  your as  a  constraint,  either  way. There  are  two  parts.  One  is  a  error  loss. Loss  L,  one  is  r.  If  you  use  L  as  a  main, R  as  a  contraint  one  way. The  other  way  is  use  R  as the  main  as  a  contraint. But  these  two  problem  formulation are  basically  of  dual. Ultimately,  we  came  back to  quite  similar  way. But  the  approach  is  the starting  point  is  different. Maybe  you  can  say  that  if you  use  this  one  as  a  main, you  concentrate  more  heavier portion  on  this  main, and  this  is  subcontant. Then  if  you  emphasize  this, then  this  is  less important  or  less  weight  than  this  one. It  depends  on  weight  as  well. Ultimately,  you  can  kill the  weight  to  be  about  the  same. The  first  approach,  we  call  it  also regularization  approach  or  penalize  learning. The  second  approach,  we call  it  this  normal  approach, and  we  will  base  on  this  to  structure our  solutions  in  these  two  approaches. First,  we  talk  about  regularization  approach. So  regularization,  we  minimize this  subject  to  this. Another  way  to  write  this  is minimize  the  SSE  subject  to  this  constraint. Subject  the  weight  to the  weight  norm  to  be  less  than  size  t. T  is  the  size. Ultimately,  this  formulation  can be  formed  as  a  ranch,  and  it  becomes  6.1. Constraint  optimization to  become  unconstrained. We  usually  go  through the  launch  method  and  that  goes  to  that. 6.1  is  basically,  also, the  same  thing  as  those constraint  problem  stated  below. Solving  this,  you  already  known  in a  five  risk  regression, kernel  risk  regression  over underdetermined  in  lecture  five. Important  one  is  a  method  is  called  Lasso, which  is  using  one  norm. This  is  the  usual  SSD, sum  square  error,  and  this  one  norm. When  you  formulate  the  one  norm, then  it's  not  so  easy  to  solve. But  it  has  been  solved  very beautifully  by  the  Sample  group  in  the  book. But  you  don't  have to  just  for  your  knowledge, but  you  don't  have  to  get  into  the  details, but  you  need  to  know  the  concept  of L  one  norm.  What  is  the  purpose? All  right.  That  one  number is  basically  some  of these  the  magnitude  of each  dimension of  the  parameter  values,  magnitude. Basically  the  size  of  each  dimension, no  square  and  square  root. This  size  actually  cut off  the  negative  value. Also,  this  problem  can be  also  written  in  a  constraint  form, subject  to  this  one  subject to  this  norm  smaller  than  some  value  C. This  minimization  basically  after the  grant  goes  down  to  6.2. And  then  more  generally, we  can  change  the  numb  to  p  numb. The  P  numb  is basically  power  of  p  of  every  perameter. Square  numb  is  just  take  square  of  every, then  sum  together,  then  take  square  root. That's  two  p  equal  to  two. P  equal  to  one,  not  so. P  num  is  a  more  general form  that  you  can  permit different  values  in  1-2  or  0.1,  0.2. The  problem  of  this  bridge  region  is to  minimize  our  SC  cost  with  p. That's  why  it's  called  bridge  bridging the  bridging  the  original rich  to  more  values. And  when  p  is  lower  than  one, P  equal  to  one  is  less. P  is  lower,  more  approach  subset  selection. P  equal  one  already has  subset  selection  property. We  shall  see  in  terms  of the  experiments  or some  numerical  values,  how  we  can  choose. Smaller  than  one,  even more  prone  to  subset  selection. Zero  is  pure  subset  selection. There's  no  transition  in  between. P  equal  one  still  the transition  when  we  squeeze  the. Now  we  also  just a  brief  review  of  the  this  no  approach, all  our  regularization  approach. Now  come  to  this  norm. This  norm,  we  can  minimize the  norm  as  the  main and  subject  to  the  error. This  solution  is  same  as  the  underdetermined. We  go  back  to  lecture  three, but  formulated  from  different  angle. The  solution  is  as  norm  solution because  we  are  taking out  of  so  many  solutions, we  take  only  the  solution  with  this  none. There  are  many  solutions  in this  underdetermined  case, but  are  only  one  solution  for  smaller  snot. Same  thing,  we  can generalize  the  two  num  to  p  norm, so  we  minimize  the  p  norm subject  to  the  error. Formulating  by  grange  formulation, we  can  write  it as  a  unconstrained  formulation. The  Alpha  here  is  known  as  grange  multiplier. And  you  realize  that  this Alpha  is  very  similar to  our  Alpha  estimated in  underdetermined  system. P  equal  to  two,  is  the  same. Alpha  can  come  from this  grand  multiplier  in  two  no. We  just  summarize  the  previous  one. We  have  the  primary  g, which  is  this  co  variance, dual  age,  which  is  the  other  co  variance, we  call  gram  matrix, and  you  need  to know  this  solution  well  by  now, the  size  of  p, the  number  of  rows  is  P, number  of  rows  is  one  to, number  of  columns  is  one  to  d, big  D  or  small  d. So  this  is  matrix  P.  P  transpose P  is  what  dimension,  d  by  d,  right? And  this  is  n  by  m. So  you  need  ready  to  know  in  order  to  do computation  in  quiz  in the  exam  or  the  basic  concept. Before  you  do  computation  or  calculation, you  need  to  know  the  dimension  to know  what  is  the  outcome. Then  you  can  organize  your  calculation. Another  way  to  write the  primary  risk  regression is  to  minimize  this  error  subject  to  this. This  was  basically  the regularization  approach, which  is  also  this and  this  is  this  norm  approach. We  go  back  a  little  bit to  two  norms  and  just  show  you the  different  ways  how  different  methods can  connect  together under  different  starting  point. First,  the  two  nom  solution, minimize  the  two  noms  of the  subject  to  the  y  equal  to  the  p, the  model  error,  or  you  can write  as  y  minus  p  equal  to  zero. Usually,  when we  do  this  constraint  optimization, we  would  like  to  convert, we  would  like  to  write  the  constraint. If  it's  an  equality  constraint, we  write  equal  to  zero. So  we  write  in  this  way. And  then  minimize  this  subject  to  this. Then  the  grand  formulation  is  to  write  it minimizing  subject  plus  a grand  multiplier  to  this  term. The  half  year  is  basically trying  to  cancel  out  the  square  term so  that  you  don't  have  too many  other  half  in  some  way. Solving  this  is  very similar  to  what  we  saw  before. Basically,  this  cost  function, we  basically  take  first drative  equal  to  zero, is  sufficient  because  we  know  this  is quadratic  function.  Near  plus  ct. We  have  the  sum  up,  is  still  combat. Minimizing  this  and  solving differentiate  respect  to  put  to  go will  give  you  the  equal  to  d.  This, I  think  we  have  also  shown  it  in  t  f. All  right. And  then  substituting  the  back, and  it  results  in  the  dual  form, like  when  we  formulate the  kernel  function  in  in  lecture  f. Okay. Substituting  inside,  the  substitution will  lead  you  to  6.15  equation, and  this  is  what  we've seen  in  the  kernel  formulation. In  lect  five.  This  just  recap. The  rest  is  basically minimization  to  f  Alpha. Take  the  partial  retive  restrat  Alpha and  we  can  get  this  Alpha  d  f. Similar  to  the  kernel  part  in  elect  five. Some  may  argue  that we  can  see  that  we  have  this  formulation. Minimize  this  subject  to  this. Minimize  nor, subject  to  y  minus  equal  to  zero. Y  minus  can  never  equal  to  zero. If  your  model  is  not  accurate  in  practice. Usually,  we  probate  y  go  to  P plus  error  or  plus  error. Because  in  practice,  we  never  know your  model  is  just  P  G. To  require  the  constraint to  be  equal  to  zero, is  mo  hopeless  because  we do  not  know  whether  this  is  a  perfect  model. Whether  our  data  can  fit  into this  perfect  linear  model.  We  don't  know. If  there's  such  an  argument, we  can  we  can  use  another  model, minimize  subject  to  P  plus  some  error. That's  a  compromise. It's  not  component  we  do not  assume  we  know  the  model. Relax  the  assumption  about  knowing  the  model. We  add  some  error,  and we  want  to  minimize  this  error  as  well. Apart  from  minimizing  the  two  norm of  the  parameter.  We  add  this  in. We  still  can  get  back  the  same  ps. The  point  is  to  say  about  this  thing. The  rest  of  just  generation. Basically  expand  this  term, you  get  this,  expand  this  term,  you  get  this, and  this  is  basically  to reform  into  this  equ  to  go. Now  is  not  y  minus p.  You  add  an  error  term  to  equal. Error  can  account  for the  inaccuracy  in  practice. And  this  is  a  grand  multiplier. The  remaining  job  is  to minimize  this  with  three  parameters. The  three  parameters,  the,  Gama,  and  Alpha. Because  we  add  one  more and  we  have  to  solve  the  grand  of  this  area. The  rest  is  just  basically  duration. First,  if  you  differentiate  respect  to  the, you  still  get  back  something related  to  P  Alpha. But  with  some  scaling  only, I  still  questionable  with  the  previous  form. Then  you  this  back so  that  you  get  rid  of  the  here. This  is  the  BT. You  substitute  this  thing  into  the  b. You  get  rid  of  the  bill  over  there. And  you  also  get  rid  of  the  over  here. This  is  the  bill,  you  get, now  you  have  only  two  parameters  remaining, one  is  Alpha,  one  is  the  Gama. Those  are  the  s  that  you  need  to  solve. First,  we  not  gama, the  E.  We  differentiate  respect  to  E  error, the  epsilon,  you  get  rid  of  asilent. And  substitute  excellent inside  the  previous  equ. Substitute  this  absent  inside. There's  no  more  ellent  there, and  remaining  is  Alpha  to  solve. Remaining  is  just  Alpha. Then  you  can  solve  for Alpha  after  finding  the  narrative. So  Diffate.  Alpha,  we  respect  the  Alpha. Put  the  g,  you  get  this  Alpha. Basically,  this  Alpha  is goes  going  back  to  what  we have  in  the  dual  risk  regression  in  ph. Except  some  scaling.  But  this  scaling cancel  off  with  the  half. It  goes  back  to the  perfect  solution  that  we  have. You  can  see  that  even if  we  include  an  error  in your  prediction  model  to cater  for  non  perfect  in  real  data, it  goes  back  to  the  same  solution as  before  without  this  assumption. But  now  the  Nada  and Gama  has  some  relationship  there. That's  all.  This  few  sit just  show  that  no  matter  how  you  start  off. But  the  second  approach  here, this  one  is  a  better  starting  point  because 6.18  do  not  assume  your  model  has  a  perfect. That's  more  acceptable.  Okay. The  previous  side  but  was just  what  in the  conventional  to  norm  setting. And  if  we  want  to  argue about  from  the  dtm  approach and  what  are  the  setting  appropriate  setting. So  we  relax  the  model  perfect  fit  assumption and  we  can  get  back  the same  risk  regression  solution. That's  all. Okay. You  don't  have  to  really  memorize  the  steps, but  need  to  know  what  are the  key  concepts  of these  assumptions  in  risk  regression. Next  we  go  to  the  more important  bridge  regression  here. Now,  bridge  regression,  we  have  to minimize  this  term  p  norm  term. What  is  p  norm  term? P  norm  term  it  looks. In  one  dimension, the  p  norm  term  is  basically  the  green  curve. Like  what  we  see  is  a  sharp  point.  Okay. And  this  penm  cannot  differentiate. It  is  not  not  differentiable at  this  changing  point. Okay?  You  cannot  find  the  gradient. So  it's  not  easy  to  solve. A  good  way  is  to  a  common  way  is to  do  approximation  of this  shape  to  some  smooth  shape. Also  a  smooth  way  is  to take  the  parameter  square and  take  square  plus  some, small  and  square  root. This  function  is  plotted  here. If  you  use  a  very  tiny  epsilon  value. You  can  see  that  it  is  this  dater  curve. The  dater  curve  is very  close  to  the  green  curve. V  c.  I  will  use  very  tiny. You  will  approximate the  perfect  absolute  function. But  if  you  use  a  higher  value  of  epsilon, then  you  can  see  it  a  bit  sharp, but  it  doesn't  look  a  square. So  how  accurate  depends  on  your  esolon  value. The  green  curve  is  the ultimate  This  approximation  is valid  and  we  can  start off  with  some  absolent  value, and  then  in  math,  we  can  make  approach. And  then  we  can  approach the  perfect  one.  That's  the  idea. We  basically  use  this  function  of  F, which  this  F  is  this  function. Square  root  of  a  square  plus. Absolute. And  taking  the  pow. We  don't  use  p  num,  we  use K  norm  to  show  that  it  is  an  approximation. It's  not  the  actual  one. We  solve  the  K  num  instead  of  p  nom  nom. This  may  not  be  a  norm. We  slightly  different  symbol,  we  use. Usual  no  we  use  the  two  bar. This  K  nom  we  use. Maybe  we  call  it the  k  measure  which  more  appropriate. It  may  not  fulfill  the  norm  condition. The  K  measure. Here  is  a  plot  of  the  p  norm  and  k  measure. P  is  the  top. All  these  are  at  different  p  values. At  P  e  to  two,  which  is  two. You  can  see  perfect  circles  in  two D.  You  can  call  this  12  p1l2, the  dimension  of  the  parameter. You  see  this  Alpha  here. And  it's  a  perfect  circle. When  you  cut  every  level, it  is  a  perfect  circle. It's  an  inverted  bell. Bell  shape,  and  you  cut, you  get  different  circle, the  conton  line  of  each  level. When  you  see  pg  one, near  one,  it  approaches a  square,  a  diamond  shape. This  is  P  1.1,  but  P  one  is  perfect  square, but  tu  as  a  diamond  shape. P  equal  to  one. P  1.1  std  factor, 1.5  more  round  two  is  round. You  can  see  the  transition between  smaller  p  and  bigger  p  value. Even  smaller  P,  even  smaller  P, the  shape  look  tut  P  less  one. Even  smaller  P,  it  k  even  sharper. P  go  to  zero,  it  become  too  sharp. If  you  can't  feature  selection. You  choose  this  axis  or  this  axis. You  cannot  choose  in  between  these  two. Your  solution  may  be  1.1  this  point. Be  your  solution,  your  normal  error  surface cut  with  this  norm, you  will  only  cut  at  one  of  the  axis. I  only  select  one  of  them. Remember,  this  normal  error plus  this  no  shape, which  is  supposed  this  cross, cut  some  together. The  lower  point  usually falls  on  the  cutting  point, the  sharp  corner  point. The  sharp  corner  point  is  choosing either  cutting  this  lower  or  this  lower. So  put  this  across  feature  selection. This  a  surface. And  this  is  the  r  surface,  sum  together. Remember  the  illustration  I did.  I  sum  together. This  smooth  and  this  non  smooth  one  is  the  H, it  will  normally  be  the  lower  point. One  of  the  either  this  or  this  one,  one, two  or  one  or  two, sum  That  become  feature  selection. But  for  one  norm,  which is  a  inverted  pyramid. This  is  a  plane  four  plane, inverted,  four  planes. This  inverted  pyramid  also  cut  at  the  edge. It's  more  smooth  transition because  there  are  edges, but  then  the  lowest  point usually  falls  on  the  edge. That's  a  L  one  norm  also  have solution  at  those  features  selected. The  other  feature  may  be  seed.  Okay. So  for  p  less  than  one  or  equal  to  one, you  have  feature  selection  property. Because  solution  normally  fall either  here  or  here  the  corner. These  fall  corners  likely to  be  the  solution  of  the  combined  cost. For  P  less  than  one. But  for  p  bigger  than  one, it's  more  smooth  because  they  are  not  so  sh. This  could  be  solution instead  of  that  corner. Maybe.  But  then  it's prone  to  one  of  the  parameter. It's  a  skilled  skill  or  that means  unequally  weighted  parameters between  this  Alpha  one  and  Alpha  two. It  may  be  more  skilled  to  Alpha  Alpha  one, more  skill  towards  zero. Alpha  two  is  still  big  value. You  squeeze  Alpha  one  more  than  Alpha  two. But  for  this  one  numb, usually  the  solution  will  not  fall  on  here. You  will  fall  on  the  corner. You  squeeze  either  Alpha one  to  zero  if  this  corner  is  selected. Because  there's  no  bulging out  to  become  the  minimum. When  p  equal  to  two, then  because  it's  perfect  ground. Every  corner  or  there's  no  corner. Every  space  is  equal  for. The  sms  every  dimension has  an  equal  chance  of  getting  smaller. No  primers  will  be  squeezed  to  zero. This  is  no  ski.  Only  for  l2n. Skill  for  this  one. Bigger  than  one.  Smaller  than  L  two. Okay.  This  picture  maybe and  the  rest  are  basically just  a  describing  it. All  right. This  conterp  basically  shows the  different  P  and  K  values  and it  depends  on  what  we  want in  our  minimization  process. We  will  start  to  solve  the  first  problem of  age  region, we  call  proximate  ridge  because it's  not  the  exact  no, but  it's  approximated  K  K  measure. The  shape  is  very  similar, but  round  but  smooth  that  we  can  optimize. We  started  off  with  minimizing the  error  square  and  the  k  measure. We  call  this  proximate  bridge  regression  in primar  form  because  it started  from  regularization  approach. The  primer  is  related  to  when  you have  samples  then  the  dimension. P  is  and  d. We  just  jump  straight  to  the  solution. Solution  is,  you  are  still  having the  similar  covalent  matrix  of  P  transpose  P, but  plus  one  diagonal  terms  of  a  squeezing a  different  size  of  the  parameter and  with  element  wise  power. This  power  is  take  the  power. It's  the  vector  multiply  many  times. It's  not  matrix  or  vector  multiplication. It's  a  element  wise  multiplication. Element  wise  power. You  are  basically  just  one,  two,  and  so  on. Each  one  take  the  same  power.  K  minus  two. That  circle  means  you  take everyone  together  small  circle. The  solution  is  quite  simple, and  the  dation  is  not  required. You  just  need  to  know  the  form  and  what  it does  later  when  we show  you  the  numeric  examples. Details  you  can  refer  to  this  paper, published  in  one  of  the  journal. And  you're  not  required  to  do  the  ation. It's  quite  complicated. Next,  we  move  on  to  underdetermined  system. We  minimize  the  k  measure subject  to  the  model, P  w  equal  to  y. We  call  this  proximate breach  regation  in  dual  form. Dual  basically  refers to  the  underdetermined  system. Primer  means  over  determined  system. Similarly,  you convert  the  unconstrained  problem, the  constrained  problem  to unconstrained  problem  by introducing  the  g  multiplier  beta. Beta  is  the  grands  multiplier. Okay. And  solving  it,  solving it  also  not  very  direct. I  would  also  refer  you  to the  details  in  the  paper, but  for  it's  optional, just  for  your  reading  sake, for  those  who  want  to  know  more. Basically,  the  solution  also  comes  in  very similar  to  the  underdetermined  case, but  you  need  a  few  more  terms, and  to  the  power  of these  terms,  also  element  wise. And  the  theatre, you  need  the  sign  of  the  theta  here. Comparing  the  two  solutions  here. This  solution  is  really a  closed  form  solution because  once  you  know  all  the  p  values, you  can  compute  theta  and  get the  sign  and  you  can  substitute  the  power. It's  a  closed  form. But  this  solution  is  not  really  closed because  the  depend  on  the  previous  related. We  need  a  few  iteration. That  means  we  can  estimate without  estimate  without  distance  first, we  get  the  W  one. And  then  substitute  here, then  you  form  one  solution. You  get  the  B  two. And  then  you  cycle  back  again  a  few  times. And  typically,  four  to  five  iteration is  enough  to  get  this,  right? But  at  least  one  cycle. Two  rounds.  W12  fit in  and  you  get  a  final  solution. You  don't  have  to  cycle  many  rounds. Strictly  speaking,  this  is not  really  close  bond, but  we  can  limit  the  number of  cycle,  iterations. These  are  the  two  basic  solutions that  we  can  find  for  bridge  regression. Next  thing  is,  we  are  also interested  in  multiple  outputs  y, big  Y,  big  P  and  big. Not  the  small  one.  Big  y. We  estimate  using  small  G,  individually. Many  small  Gs,  and  to  become  a  big  g. We  estimate  using  this  big  g with  many  small  tub  and  small  gs. Each  of  the  small  g  correspond to  p  and  small  tub. Each  of  this.  Of  this  g. We  are  going  to  put  the  answers together  and  with  some  assumptions. The  assumption  is  that when  the  put  are  independent, G  one  and  G  two  and  G  two. Does  not  interact  with  each  other. Then  the  solution  can  be  stacked  together, and  we  can  estimate we  can  perform  the  same  estimation, similar  to  the  previous lectures  in  lecture  five, multiple  class  problems.  We  put  together. We  just  put  the  solution for  overdetermined  case  for multiple  outputs  for  each  output, L  one  to  c  and  put  together, and  we  can  stack  the  together. To  become  a  big,  then we  can  estimate  everything  together. And  this  independent, assuming  these  are  independent  outputs. Okay. And  similarly,  for the  underdetermined  system, the  rich  equation  in  dual  form. We  also  stack  together  for  all  the  tub. Okay.  And  then  we  stack  together all  the  tu  small  tubs  to  become big  and  stack  together  to  the  big. The  basic  idea  is  simple. But  the  duration  is  quite complex  and  you  are  not  required  to  know. But  if  you  have  reading  interest, just  refer  to  the  reference. I'm  going  to  illustrate  to  you. This  formula  has  been  used  to  run these  examples  in  the  following. Suppose  we  have  data generated  using  this  model. Suppose  we  know  this  model. The  truth  of  this  model  is  this, but  we  assume  we  do  not  know. We  first  generate  data  with this  model  at  these  coordinate  values. So  every  X  give  you  a  Y. Every  X  give  you  a  Y, based  on  this  model.  And  so  on. We  assume  we  do  not  know  this  model. Assume  we  do  not  know  this  model, we  cover  the  model, and  we  use  this  data  to train  without  seeing  the  true  model. Then  we  want  to  see  using the  breeze  regression  to  squeeze the  parameter  using  p  near  one. To  squeeze  or  P  equal  to  one  to  squeeze, some  parameter  to  zero, and  to  see  whether  you  can  arrive  back, whether  we  can  predict  back this  model  by  using the  squeezing  mathematically  or  numerically. Suppose  we  use  a  ten  or  pom  model to  we  do  not know  how  many  polymal  terms  are  the. Each  of  each  of  these  are  called  moms. Moms,  Poly  normal  moms. Pom  monomer. We  just  use  ten  order. We  don't  know  how  much  order  it  has. We  do  not  know  it contains  only  power  two  and  three, the  degree  is  up  to  ten  here. We  feed  the  data.  We  generate many  data  in  this  range. We  train.  We  get  the  ing  a  k  measure  of  1.1, which  is  based  close  to  Lao. Because  the  solution  here,  some  models. So  size  one  of  them  do  not  accept  one. Maybe  the  underdetermined  case, k  cannot  equal  to  one. But  for  overdetermined  case, k  can  be  equal  to  one. There's  no  restriction  on  k  value. For  all  determine,  you  can  safely  use k  to  implement  so. But  for  underdetermined  case,  in  this  case, if  we  have  more  data,  we  are  not  so  sure, so  we  just  choose  a  very  near  las  value. We  chose  a  k  very  close  to  one. And  we  extend  parameters  and  we can  see  that  this correspond  to  bias  x  s  x  four, and  so  on.  I  think  x  ten. You  can  see  this  correspond  to  zero, very  near  to  zero,  even  until  here. These  two  are  very  big  value, and  these  are  small. This  upset  is  needed  in  some  way, but  it's  also  quite  small. You  can  see  this  value  is  near  ten. This  value  is  near  one  minus  one. This  is  our  original  very  near  to our  original  model,  near  to  model. We  can  see  that  this bridge  regression  can  squeeze, queze  the  model  to very  small  parameters  to near  zero,  approach  zero. And  only  the  two  parameters survive  with  some  values. One  is  near  minus  one,  one  is  near  ten. Nine  point  something  and  -0.9  something. This  is  one  of the  verification  of  this  example. Code  is  partially  provided. For  P  reach,  I  think  you  need  to in  For  small  dimensional  problem, it's  easy  to  quote  these  answers. But  like  this  example, quote  directly  using  the  formula is  not  so  difficult. But  if  you  want  to  make it  very  general  for  big  dimension, then  you  may  run  into  problem. Coding  small  and  you  can easily  quote  directly  using the  equation  for  small  p  dimensions. Once  a  very  big  p  dimension, you  may  run  into  some  numerical  issues  and the  dimension  can  be  very huge  and  very  hard  to  take  inverse. This  is  basically  the  result  that  I  obtain. In  terms  of  the  curve  itself, the  output  curve,  the  training  sample, and  the  predicted  output. I  think  it  fits  very  well. With  the  actual  actual  equation. If  you  plot  the  actual  equation, which  we  didn't  plot  here. A  training  points  splot using  the  actual  equation. All  right. And  next  go  through  the  profiles  of a  very  popular  example. That's  about  data  related  to  prostate  cancer, which  is  very  related  to  older  people. It's  a  gla  size,  right. And  this  data  is  from  the  sample  group, they  use  it  in  the  book. 67  training  samples  for  training. And  then  testing,  we  have  30  samples. It's  considered  quite  a  small  file and  very  easily  done  by  ourselves. And  there  are  only  eight  input  variables. Is  this  over determined  or  underdetermined  system? How  many  say  over? Thank  you. It's  over  because  we  have 67  times  eight  or  nine, nine  is  p  bias. 67  and  nine  d,  d  equal  to  nine. Nine  because  we  add  one  more  bias. This  is  an  over  determined  system, nine  cohbion  to  estimate  including  the  bias. Bias  is  also  called  interceptor. Okay. Then  the  estimation  coion  profile is  done  in  the  in  the  popular  book  by the  Stipa  group  is  observed  according to  the  variation  of  string  gauge  value, which  is  we  change the  Lamda  value  from  very  small  to  very  big. The  amda  value  changes  from my  experiment  I  think  is  from  zero to  maybe  tens  of  thousand  or  more. Or  more. But  this  is  not  so  practical  to  plot. So  they  normalize  the  umda  into this  form  when  they  do  the  plotting. So  the  extra  numbda  value  is  quite  big. In  other  words, we  come  back  to  this  slide. In  other  words,  the  Namda  value for  this  penalty  function, varies  from  very  small near  zero  to  huge  value. That  means  it  weighted  or overpower  the  original  loss  function, a  cost  function,  sum  of  losses. That  means  the  impact  of  loss  is  almost  du. We  only  penalize  all  the  parameters. Naturally,  most  of  them  will  go  to  zero. The  become  huge  and  this  one no  more  important.  Ero  no  important. A  parameter  goes  to  zero. All  parameter  are  minimized because  this  um  is  too  huge. This  basically  what So  they  normalize  this to  some  normalized  scale. And  this  is  a  picture  we  plotted, but  it  shows  exactly  the  same  as  that  in the  book  in  the  stanford published  book  by  the  group. And  these  are  the  variables. I  think  these  are  the  different  chemicals inside  the  measurement, maybe  blood  test,  right. And  then  is  important. So  that  the  size of  the  postate  gland  is  proportional  to. So And  I'm  not  so  sure  what  are  those, but  I  think  they  are  just  those  content that  they  measure  clinically  measure. Either  some  proteins  or  some  whatever  content inside  inside the  I  think  it's  the  bloodstream. And  this  DF  is  the  Nada related  to  Lambda  value. Over  this  side,  is  Lambda  is  very  big. Over  this  side  is  Dada  zero. It's  reverse  relationship  because  of this  normalization. I  just  normalize  it. If  I  plot,  I  may  like  to  plot  directly, but  it  becomes  very  big  dua. Then  maybe  not  so  standardized  in  some  sense. They  put  in  the  standardized  curve, which  looks  more  smooth because  a  different  scales  of  Duma, the  effect  is  different. I  think  this  is  a  normalized  so  that  you can  see  very  smooth  transition. Over  here,  you  can  see all  these  input  variables, x1x2  to  x  eight, those  parameter  in the  content  of  this  measurement. You  can  see  that  all  goes  to zero  if  the  Nama  tends  to  very  huge  value. A  curve  none  of  them  go  to  zero  beforehand. Okay.  And  this  actually reproduce  what  they  published  in  the  book. But  it's  not  taken  from  the  book, it's  blotted  by  ourself  but  using  their  data. Next,  we  showcase  because we  are  using  the  primer  reach, we  can  set  k  one. Using  this  data  because  overdetermined. In  the  overdetermined  case, remember  the  solution for  overdetermined  case. The  Dada  the  k  value  can  be  set  to  one. Because  there's  no  inverse  here. No  inverse  on  k. So  you  can  say  K  one. You  can  see  when  K  one is  basically  similar  to  Lasso, and  right  hand  side, the  plot  on  the  right  hand  side  is  Lasso, and  this  is  our  bridge  regression  model. When  k  one.  Last  is  already  default L  one,  L  P  n  one. This  block  is  generated  using  M. Mb  has  a  default  blotting  mode, which  difficult  to  change  the  scale. The  default  is  a  lock. You  can  see  this  small  space  in  small  space, small  to  big  space,  is  a  lock  scale. I  think  I  have  difficulty  plotting back  to  a  normal  scale  without  a  low. If  I  can  plot  back, it  should  be  similar  curve. But  we  can  observe  here, H  and  this  LCP  v.  LCP  goes  to  zero  first. In  LC  P  also  goes  to  zero. But  not  so  obvious  because  not  lock  scale. Almost  all.  That's  why  they  block  lock  scale. Because  in  the  matlab,  the  space  of  the  data they  generate  created  this  value. The  space  means  for  certain  values, the  difference  is  not  so they  don't  generate  so they  generate  data  in lock  scale  in  the  X  input. Very  hard  to  convert  back  to  non  lock  scale. For  our  case  we  generate  equal  space. We  can  look.  This  is just  two  way  of  doing  quite  similar  plot. This  is  the  first  case,  they  are  having  the same  the  first  two  variables  squeeze  to  go. That  means,  if  you  want  to  use this  model  to  do  prediction, this  H  and  gon,  LCP, these  two  var  can  be  not so  important  can  be  non selected  as  a  variable if  you  want  a  small  model. Subsequently,  you  can  see the  next  two  those  20  weight. And  I  think  I  think  it's  not  so  clear  here. I  don't  know  if  it's  PGG  45 or  VPH  one  of  them. So  this  two  var  goes  to  zero  next. So  the  next  less  important  variable to  kick  out  these  two  values. And  over  here,  you  can  see the  different  LPG  first. And  then  the  next  one  is  L  weight. And  we  can  see the  most  important  variable  is LCAO  L.  It  is  the  last  one, which  is  the  same,  st  one  to  go  through  zero. You  must  keep  this  var,  the  most  important. If  you  have  twice  to  kick out  this  important  one  or  two, you  can  kick  the  H  and  the  LC. You  can  see  there's  a  curve  like  this  here. I  think  if  you plug  back  to  the  similar  scale, they  will  be  almost  the  same  same  shape. You  can  see  the  solution of  Lasso  and  solution of  proximal  bridge  bridge. Is  similar. We  just  bean  mind  co  because  it's  a solved  using  some  it, but  it's  quite  neat  and  fast. The  solution  is  beautiful  as  well. But  cannot  be  solved  in  a  no  iterative  way. But  our  proximate  breach actually  is  a  few  it  also. But  then  we  incur  more  computation of  if  you  have  high  dimensional  inverse. Lasso  is  still  computationally more  efficient  in  some  way. But  our  solution  is  we can  ride  in  a  near  close one  for  approximate  for the  overdetermined  case. For  undetermined  case  is  overdetermined, but  that  was  not  studied  by  them. So  we'll  provide  another  case of  underdetermined  case. But  before  that,  we can  compare  the  prediction  results. In  terms  of  min  square  error, because  this  is  a  regression  problem. Y  is  a  regression  problem. So  The  MC  M  square  error  is the  main  comparing  parameter or  comparing  metric  for  the  errors. O  S  is  the  ordinary  d  square. It  has  the  highest  men  square error  and  risk  regression  quite  high. We  basically  want  to  compare so  Alpha  equal  one. In  M  M  lasso, at  is  implemented  using  elastic  net. Elasticnt  is  a  combination  of lasso  plus  Alpha  multiplied by  bach  underneath  the  matlat  function. Oh,  I  think  it's  the  other  way  round. I  I  forgot  Alpha  or  one  minus  Alpha. So  when  Alpha  you  go  to  one,  which  is  zero. I  becomes  so.  On  minus  Alpha.  I. I  M  implementation,  you  have  to  read the  menu  to  know the  exact  setting  and see  the  code  if  you  want. To  set  the  mo,  you  need  to  set  alpha  one. Then  for  a  P  bridge,  you  can  just  set  K  one. We  basically  want  to compare  these  two  values. They  are  c. P  bridge  is  not  as  good, it  also  depends  on  the  tiling of  this  num  value. The  weightage  of  this  penalty. There  are  other  cases  because  we  try  to optimize  based  on  cost  dilation, we  choose  the  best  combinations  or  whatever, then  you  get  different  values. For  variables  selected,  they  all  chose quite  similar  parameters except  variable  seven. For  this  prostate  example. Maybe  we  can  take a  closer  comparison  between  these  two  values. They  are  quite  similar.  In  some  plans. This  is  almost  zero, and  the  rest  of  ve  big  and  small  values, I  think  they  are  only the  seven  can  be  kicked  out. The  variable  can  be  each  is  quite  important. It  didn't  go  to  zero  so  fast. Okay. So  prostate  is  known  to  be  very related  to  age.  Right. So  when  we  grow  older, we  need  to  check  all  b. Next,  we  go  to  an  underdetermined  case, which  is  not  given  in  the  Lasso  book. Suppose  we  use  a  third  order  point normal  to  model  the  exclusive  problem. We  already  seen  the  problem, which  is  the  non  separable under  two  dimension. We  use  a  big  point  nominal. We  want  to  squeeze  out  as  monomials. We  want  to  squeeze  out  kick unuseful  monome  we  use  unuseful  monome. This  rationale  here. We  use  so  many  terms here  and  we  want  to  kick  up unuseful  terms  so  that  we can  use  a  very  sparse  model, which  is  smallest  model that  do  not  take  up  so  many  membre. This  is  a  purpose. We  perform  all  the  training  of this  using  all  the  models. First,  we  provide  the  risk  regression. Because  this  is  under  determined  case, so  we  use  a  kernel  ridge, which  is  under  determined  case or  dual  rich  region, we  can  name  it  that  way. This  is  the  plot  for each  coefficient  value  compression. Cf  corresponding  to  this  input, or  the  parameters  corresponding weights  tying  to  this  input, or  the  power  terms  and  non  power  terms. As  usual,  the  reach  one  k  two, or  the  parameter  goes to  zero  in  asymptotically. Means  none  of  them  goes  super  fast. If  we  because  k  cannot be  equal  to  one  in  underdetermined  case, we  choose  very  close  like 1.5  for  P  breach  regression, and  we  can  see  that  only  two pomter  or  two  monomi  terms  are  needed, which  is  the  third  power  for  this  exclusive. The  rest  go  to  zero  very  fast. If  we  check  using  the  lasso  in  mat  lab, you  can  see  that  also the  most  lasting  parameters are  also  the  third  power  term. But  X  one  survives  also  quite  long, and  the  rest  can  be  easily  thrown  away. The  x  without  power,  x1x2. This  is  a  decision  curve  produced  by both  methods  and  they  look  quite  similar. To  compare  the  results  in terms  of  mean  square  error, and  we  can  compare  at  different  k  values. We  can  see  that  the  parameters  selected. For  Lasso,  the  parameters  selected are  for  p  re  selected  quite  similar. Except  the  bias  term. We  can  see  the  parameters  squeezed  to  zero, except  the  two  non  01. They  are  quite  similar  for  most  of  the elastic  because  it's  combining  with  bag, so  not  all  are  zero, but  for  lasso  and  P  bridge, the  rest  almost  zero. So  this  code  to  generate  the  data  and  you can  do  whatever  by  simple  coding, and  this  is  a  Python  generator  figure. Okay.  I  think  we  have  come to  an  end  and  to  summarize, The  main  motivation  for  penalize  learning is  to  discourage  overly  complex  model. That  means  we  want  to  keep the  parameter  size  more, and  we  use  this  parameter  size  norm as  part  of  the  objective  in  the  optimization. This  regularization  will  provide for  better  prediction  power, which  is  term  better  generalization. We  basically  go  to  two  approaches. One  is  a  primar  approach called  regularization, you  minimize  the  error, subject  to  the  parameter  norm. The  other  one  is  this  norm minimize  the  norm  of parameter  and  subject  to the  error  error  value. Basically,  they  are  related  to primal  and  dual  bridge and  bridge  equation,  they  are  related. And  we  have  some  numerical  examples. The  main  importance  of  this  part  is  to interpret  the  results  rather than  the  details  of  equations. Interpret  means  how the  parameter  size  varies  under different  norms  conditions  under different  P,  L  one,  L  two, L  p,  L,  whatever  values, and  you  need  to  have  a  good  feeling of  this  parameter  size, and  also  the  covision  profile. Behaviors. These  are  the  big  picture  you  need  to  know rather  than  mathematical  details. Okay. So  basically,  this  is we  can  call  it  a  day  for  today's  class. And  I  remind  you  again, the  A  two,  is  conducted  on  week  eight, which  is  after  the  recess  week. All  right.  So  you  can prepare  more  time  with  more  time. And  the  coverage  is  from  Lecture  567. Previously,  two,  three,  four,  now  567. I  eight  is  the  week  that we  have  lecture  eight  plus  the  quiz. All  right.  So  I  hope  with  this, you  have  some  picture of  how  to  prepare  for the  quiz  during  the  recess  time. Okay.  Thank  you.  Okay.  See  you. And  see  you  two  weeks  later,  right? Yeah.  Okay.  And  I'll stay  as  you  for  a  couple  of  minutes, and  if  any  questions, feel  free  to  come  to  ask.
