Okay,  hello. We  meet  again  for  week  Lure  today. I  won't  be  a  full  lecture. You'll  probably be  half  the  time  of  what  you  normally  do because  we  need  time  to prepare  for  the  quiz  later  on,  right? Also  to  be  consistent as  with  the  morning  lecture. So  today,  I  won't  cover  anything  new, but  let  me  just  run  through  with  you the  scope  of  what  we  have  done  so  far. So  normally  you  see  each  week, I  try  and  give  you  a  summary  of what  happened  the  week  before. All  right.  So  all  those  will be  important  points. If  you  can  put  down  all  those  together, that  will  constitute  what  you  have  studied. So  sometimes  quite  often, many  of  you  would  ask,  you  know, can  you  give  a  summary  of  what  we  have  done, you  know,  what  is  actually  covered? Well,  those  three  weeks  at  the  beginning of  it,  All  right. T  beginning  of  it, I  always  give  you  a  recap. So  that  will  be  a  good  reference,  right? So  I'm  going  to  do  the  same  thing also  and  try  and  give  you a  recap  of  what  happened last  week  and  along  the  way, just  mention  some  points for  you  to  ponder  and  think  about. All  right. So  So  the  last  week, if  you  recall,  we mainly  talk  about  representation. So  we  talked  about  representation,  right? And  by  now,  I  think at  your  fingertips,  you  know, there  are  five  representations that  we  have  spoken  about. So  these  five  representations, I  think  you  know  them  to  be  what  binary, integer,  permutation,  real  value,  and  trees. So  let's  just  run  through  each  and  every  one. So  we  talk  about  representation. Of  course,  representation  is  actually the  representation  of  the  problem that  we  are  trying  to  solve. So  that  is  actually  the  first  step. Whenever  we  want  to solve  using  a  evolutionary  algorithm, or  genetic  algorithm, the  first  thing  we  think  about  is how  to  represent  the problem,  the  problem  domain. A  lot  of  time  is just  a  so  called  representation of  the  solution  coding. As  chromosomes, which  becomes  so  called a  population  of  individuals, you  know,  that  is  being  manipulated in  a  genetic  algorithm. So  representation  would  be  important  aspect in  GA.  And  along  with  each  representation, I  think  it  is  quite  clear for  you  that,  you  know, each  of  the  representation  has the  so  called  unique  crossover  and  mutation. So  mutation,  as  you  know, mutation  and  crossover  causes  variation. Mutation  cause  a  small  variation. Well,  crossover  causes a  little  bit  more  drastic  variation. But  more  importantly, crossover  also  brings  along another  important  traits  or characteristics  that  is  a passing  on  of  so  called  information from  fit  individuals. Right?  Essentially,  that's  a  nutshell of  what  GA  is  trying  to  do. The  final  representation  we  talked  about, cannot  stress  the  importance of  binary  because  it's the  first  when  GA  came  about, binary  was  the  one  that  make  it  very  popular. And  I  think  sometimes in  order  for  algorithm or  technique  to  be  popular, it  got  to  be  scalable,  I  got  to  be  simple. Simple  in  the  sense  that  are  not too  many  parameters  to  tune. Now,  I've  seen  in  my  role  in reviewing  papers  and  also  an  editor. Some  of  the  papers  submitted,  you  know, the  technique  sounds  very  elegant. But  when  you  really  look  deep  into  it, there  are  so  many  different  parameters you  need  to  play  with,  you  know,  right. So  in  other  words, if  you  want  it  to  work  well, it's  almost  to  the  extent  of  like  trying to  handcraft  the  different  parameters. So  there  is  not  very  not very  good  or  elegant, right,  and  not  a  very  good trait  in  the  algorithm. So  binary  is  nice,  right. So  binary  because  of  zero  and  one. So  when  you  cause variation  or  you  change  values, it's  either  zero  or  one. So  in  excess,  it's  very straightforward.  All  right. So  many  of  the  earlier  algorithms  are the  earliest  earlier  genetic  algorithms are  mostly  all  binary. Okay.  Along  the  way  we  see  or  realize  that many  real  world  problems  are  actually more  conveniently  or  more naturally  real  and  continuous  values. As  parameter  setting, Parameter  setting  like  in  control. They  are  real  values. All  right.  You  could have  used  binary  to  code  it. But  then  you  know  going  from  real  to  binary, you  are  going  from  a  continuous  domain to  a  discrete  domain. Naturally,  some  aspect  or some  parts  of  it  is  going  to  be  sacrificed, for  example,  the  accuracy. For  one,  that's  quite  clear because  in  real  values  are  continuous, so  you  put  it  into  the  so called  the  discrete  domain. So  it  depends  on  the  length  of  the  string, how  many  bits,  how  many  steps  you  discretize. Okay.  So  real  values,  Continuous. Now,  the  rules  on  effecting  mutation and  crossover  got  to  be different  or  naturally  will be  different  from  binary. Because  binary  space  is  zero  and  one. Continuous  space  is  infinite. The  possibilities  are  infinite. Therefore,  you've  seen  that  different  ways of  doing mutation  and  crossover  in the  real  value  representation. Essentially, they  are  so  called approaches  that  rely  on  fixed  parameter. The  parameter  are  usually the  apportionment  parameters. Apportionment  meaning  in  the  sense  of  Alpha, you  apportion  some  part  to  the  first  parent and  the  remaining  part to  the  second  parent  and  so  on. This  parameter  can  be fixed  random  or  addative. A  Addtive  was  a  very  nice  idea. You  can  the  step  size  into  the  string  itself. That's  what  we've  seen  in the  real  continuous  space. And  the  third  one  is  integer. Representation  of  discrete  values. Using  a  finite  value  set. For  example,  if  there  are  three  classes, that  value  set  is  123. Or  if  they  are  colors, gray  level,  one,  2256. So  those  are  discrete  values. Or  in  the  four  coloring  graph  coloring. To  color  using  four  colors, each  of  the  color  can  be represented  as  a  integral  value.  All  right. So  quite  clearly,  I  think  these  are  so called  integral  value  like  your  Bin  packing, for  example,  those  can  be  so called  integral  values  representation. Permutation  is  interesting. As  more  and  more  problems  are  being solved  using  GA,  then  quite  naturally, some  of  the  problems  present  itself  where the  sequence  and  the ordering  is  of  importance, like  your  scheduling  or your  traveling  salesman  problem. These  problems,  the  sequence  or the  order  of  the  values of  the  genes  are  important. Now, another  interesting  aspect  is  that,  you  know, the  permutation  aspect  is a  arrangement  where  each  one  is  unique. Of  course,  we've  looked  at  quite exhaustively  the  end  queens problem  and  studied  it  in  quite  a  bit. So  I  think  by  now,  I  think  you  are  quite familiar  or  quite  attuned  to  the  end  queens. That  will  be  a  prime,  good example  of  your  permutation. Permutation  because  of  the  requirement of  it  being  a  permutation  string. The  requirement  of  it  being a  permutation  string. Naturally,  the  mutation  and a  crossover  will  be  a  little  bit  different. Okay.  So  we  look  at, for  example,  your  cycle  crossover, your  H  recombination,  PM  x, order  one,  and  so  on. Right.  But  what  is  unique, or  what  is  clear about  this  operations  is  that they  must  still  maintain that  permutation  structure. That  is  the  main  requirement  in this  kind  of  permutation  arrangement. Naturally,  the  approach  is that  when  you  operate, you  make  sure  that  the  result is  also  a  permutation. Another  way  people  do it  is  through  repairing. So  for  example,  after  you  operate your  crossover  on  permutation  strings, you  get  a  result. There's  not  a  permutation. If  it's  not  a  permutation, one  way  to  handle  it  is just  do  some  repairing, to  bring  it  back  or  make it  into  a  permutation  string. So  different  approaches  has  been used  in  the  GA  literature. And  the  last  one  is  the  trees. So  this  is  what  we  call in  the  GA.  We  call  it  a  genetic  programming. In  genetic  programming. The  whole  idea  is  to  evolve. Like  maybe  programs,  procedures. Finite  state  machines,  you  know. Essentially, the  representation  of  it will  be  in  terms  of  trees. Imagine  you  are  e  population  of  structures. For  example,  you  do  graph  mining  you evolving  all  these  so  called  structures. All  right. So  you  would  have  to  think, okay,  you  know,  in  string. In  binary  string,  we  just  flip the  values  0-1  or  one  to  zero. Or  integer,  we  just  flip  the  value,  right? Accordingly.  What  about in  trees  representation? Well,  you  find  that  the  gist  of the  idea  is  that  the  subtrees. All  right. So  if  it  is  a  tree, every  subtree  is  also  a  tree,  okay? So  there  especially  if it's  bnary  tree,  you  know, this  is  a  recursive  nature. Okay. So  when  you  do  mutation  and  recombination, essentially, you're  manipulating  those  subtrees. Mutation,  for  example,  you mutate  a  sub  tree  into  something  else. Recombination,  you  choose  two  parents, you  take  two  sub  tree  and  then  exchange. So  that's  what  happens  in a  so  called  a  tree  representation.  All  right. So  many  interesting  problems  are  handled  or solved  using  the  tree  representation. Now,  that's  pretty  much if  you  look  at  recap one  recap  two  recap  three. So  that  would  be  essentially the  summary  of  what  we  have  covered. Now,  of  course,  we  can  go  on and  I  can  cover  some  more, but  I  doubt  maybe  your  focus or  your  mind  will  be thinking  a  lot  more  about  the  quiz,  right? So  I've  decided  after  some  thoughts, I  say,  maybe  I  don't  cover  anything  new. So  which  means  to  say,  whatever  you're responsible  for  is  up  to  what  we have  covered  up  to  big  number  three. So  by  that,  I  mean  for  exam. For  exam,  you will  So  for  example, we  have  done  up to  we  did  up to  let  me  run  it. Okay. So  we  we  covered  up to  up  to  the  three  representation  part, right?  And  beyond  that. There  are  some  more  interesting  topics also  about  genetic  algorithm. So  it  pertains  to like  how  we  deal  with  the fitness,  population, how  we  manage  the  population, you  know,  or  selection, the  different  schemes  of  selection. Right.  Although  these  are  topics, we  can  deve  further  into  GA, but  I  think  maybe  we  don't  cover  it. That  means  that  anything  beyond  sl 60  And  after  I won't  set  any  questions  on  it,  right? I  exam.  So  you know  you  don't  have  to  worry  about  it, but  it  is  interesting enough  to  think  a  little bit  about  issues  pertaining  to  fitness, selection  and  population  management.  Okay. So  if  you're  given  some  thoughts, I'm  sure  you  would have  guessed  that  actually  they  are further  issues  pertaining  to this  fitness  selection and  population  management. Right.  So  let  me  just throw  in  a  couple  of  examples. For  example,  in  your  fitness,  right? Initially,  when  how  do you  expect  the  fitness  distribution  to  be? Let's  say  initially  in the  early  early  stage  generations  of  the  GA? As  compared  to  later  on. How  do  you  expect the  fitness  distribution  to  be? Will  the  fitness  distribution  be  tighter on  the  initial  stages  or  at  the  later  stages? I  think  logically  you  will  guess  that, as  the  generations  progresses, the  fitness  distribution  is going  to  be  tighter  towards  the  end. Because  through  the  process  of selection  and  reproduction, the  whole  population,  the  quality  of it  is  going  to  improve  with  each  generation. Naturally,  the  distribution  is  going  to  be tighter.  Now,  here's  a  question. Do  you  think  selection, think  about  selection. For  example,  selection,  you  want  to  give higher  chance  to  those  that  is  fitted. Do  you  think  selection  will be  more  effective  on so  called  fitness  distribution that  is  wider  or something  that  is  very  tight? Let  me  think  about  it,  right? So  how  would  the  selection  pressure play  its  role  in  a  population  where the  fitness  is  very  tight  as  compared  to the  fitness  that  is very  so  called  diverse  or  spread  out. I  think  quite  naturally you  will  see  that,  you  know, if  the  fitness  is  very  tight, then  the  selective  pressure is  not  very  effective. Because  everybody  would  have about  the  same  chance. If  you  use  a  basic  normal  selection. As  compared  to  fitness  that  are  spread  out, then  the  selection  pressure. S  selection  bias  will be  more  effective.  All  right? Initially,  fitness  proportional  kind of  selection  seems  to  work  well, but  then  towards  the  end may  not  work  as  well. So  that's  why  when  you  del  further  into  GA, you  look  at  different  types  of  selection, or  you  look  at,  for  example, fitness  rescaling,  to  scale  the  fitness, to  give  it  more  a  better  selective  pressure. Well,  you  can  do  ranking. You  don't  measure  the  thinness, you  just  rank  them  accordingly. Okay?  So  those  rank  highest. Even  the  difference  is  only a  small,  very  small, but  you  act  so called  preferential  selection based  on  the  ranking. Those  are  issues  that  we would  look  at,  you  know, if  one  were  to  go  a  little  bit further  into  genetic  algorithm. And  we  also  think  about,  like, for  example,  population  management. There  are  different  models like  the  distributed  model where  you  divide  population  into  subgroups. One  of  the  things  that  people  do  is  to create  islands  of  populations  and then  make  the  islands or  population  evolve  independently, but  occasionally  exchange  information. Those  are  different  schemes or  further  issues  pertaining to  so  called  genetic  algorithm.  All  right. So  if  you  in the  course  of  your  work  or research  work  or  project, if  you  do  come  across  the  need to  consider  genetic  algorithm,  right. So  this  will  be  interesting  thing  or topics  you  can  look  into. So  again,  60  and  beyond,  we  won't  cover. It's  not  testable  in  exam.  All  right. So  I  know  I'm  still  going  to  get  e  mails, those  that  I  didn't  cover, whether  it's  going  to  be  exam  or not,  but  never  mind, hopefully  by  making  it  very, very  explicit,  you  get  a  picture,  right? Don't  worry  about  anything that's  60  and  beyond. Okay? So  slide  60-74,  you can  put  it  aside  when  you  study  for  exam. Okay.  So  we  won't  cover  anything  new,  right? So  the  next  best  thing for  me  to  do  would  be  to maybe  take  a  look  at  some of  the  past  year  exam  questions. Right?  We  just  take  a  couple, just  to  give  you  a  feel  for the  type  of  questions that  you  will  encounter, the  level  of  complexity. All  right.  So  that's  what  we  shall  do. So  all  these  exam  questions  are  available. I  believe  they  are  in the  archive  in  the  library. Now,  I'm  going  to  start by  taking  a  look at  Semester  22022,  right? So  earlier  this  was  known  as  EE  6227. If  you  look  in  the  library, you  may  look  at  EE  6227, some  of  the  past  year  questions. So  let's  take  a  look  at  question  number  one and  make  sure  we  understand.  All  right. So  quite  typical  of  the  questions  I  said, I  usually  give  quite  a  bit  of story  behind  the  questions,  you  know. So  some  of  you  may  get  a  little  bit perturbed  or  a  little  bit uncomfortable  with  all  these lengthy  description. But  the  gist  of  it  is  it  is the  solving  of  it  is not  so  elaborate  as  you  might  think. Mm.  Okay.  Let's  take  a  look  at the  first  question.  All  right. So,  did  I  need  to. Let  me  do  some  setting. Okay. So  this  is  Semester  22022,  right? And  as  I  said, earlier  on,  the  codes  are  66227. Now,  of  course,  then  they  change  it  to  6407. So  if  you  look  in the  archive  in  the  library,  right, 6227  is  equally  applicable or  relevant  for  you  to  revise  and  study. Now  I  want  to  take  a  look at  the  first  question. So  as  I  mentioned,  quite  often, my  questions,  which  are usually  very  original,  right? Original  in  the  sense  that  you  don't  find  or covers  not  copied  from  anywhere.  Right? So  suppose  egg  birth, right,  suppose  egg  birth, every  human  being  is given  a  fixed  number  of  heart  beats. And  once  these  heart  beats are  used  up,  life  ends. Interesting  pots  in  it.  All  right. So  we  are  all  born  with a  so  called  fixed  number of  heart  beats,  you  know,  right? So  very  huge  number. Just  imagine  every  minute you  do  like  70  or  80. So  in  100  years  or  80  years, you  know,  how  many  heart  beats  is  that? So  according  to  the postulation  here,  is  that, you  know,  All  of  us  has a  certain  number,  you  know,  right. So  once  you  use  up  that  number, right,  say  goodbye  to  this  word. So  that's  what  the  question  is  saying. So  then  if  you  have  a  fixed  number, then  the  faster  you  beat, if  your  heart  beat  is  very  high, then  of  course,  you  use up  that  number  in  a  shorter  time. Right.  But  if  your  heartbeat  is  low, then  you  can  stretch  that  number  longer. But  here's  a  dilemma  here.  Is  it? Okay.  So  obviously,  how  should  we optimally  use  these  heartbeats  to have  as  long  a  life  as  possible? Now,  it  is  tempting  to suggest  that  one  is  better  off staying  in  bed  and resting  to  maintain  a  low  heart  beat. Because  exercise  really  get  you  going. When  you  exercise  your  heart  beat goes  120  140, you  know,  quite  often  I  check  mine  is  145, you  know,  that  kind  of  thing. So  in  that  case, in  order  to  have  long  life, so  maybe  you  sit  in  bed, have  a  sedentary  life, right,  maintain  a  low  heart  beat. But,  of  course,  I  think we  all  are  wiser  than  that. We  know  that  the  signs  of good  health  does  point  to  the  fact that  a  trained  heart  beats more  slowly  when  a  person  is  at  rest. So  on  this  note,  consistent exercising  is  not  a  bad  idea,  right? So  exercise  will  get  you your  resting  heart  rate  to  be  lower,  a? Now,  let's  try  and  do  some  modeling. Suppose  that  untrained  heart  beats 80  times  per  minute  when  a  person  is  at  rest, and  during  exercise,  it beats  120  times  per  minute. Now,  just  assume  if a  particular  individual  doesn't do  much  exercise,  right? So  the  heart  beat  is  80  times  per  minute. And  if  if  one  exercises, then  the  heartbeat  is  much  faster, 120  times  per  minute. If  a  person  exercises the  fraction  x  of  his  time, The  average  heart  beats  per  minute  is as  follows  as  given  by  this  equation  here. So  x  is  the  fraction of  time  that  is  spent  on  exercising. So  the  heart  beats  x  based  on  a  fraction  x  is 120  x  plus  one  minus  x  g  x. X  is  just  a  fraction. So  we  don't  really  know, or  it  depends  on  individual how  much  time  or  fraction of  time  they  spent  exercising. Okay.  The  modeling further  tells  you  that,  you  know, so  this  g  x  here, to  determine  an  appropriate  function  g  x. We  can  base  it  on  the  requirement  that G  x  should  be  close  to  eight  for  small  x. Meaning  if  you  don't  exercise, it  should  be  eight,  right? If  x  is  very  small, meaning  you  exercise  very  little, then  your  heartbeat  should  be your  resting  heartbeat  should be  close  to  eight. So  for  small  x, which  means  that  hardly  an  exercise  is  done. When  x  approaches  one, we  assume  g  to  be  closing  in  on  50. So  can  you  see  if  this  is  x  is  one. When  x  is  one,  e  minus  -100, that  should  make  this  value  close  to  50. Okay. Okay. So  this  is  the  so  called  the  G  X,  right? So  what  you  ask  is, produce  a  table  according  to  the  format shown  in  Table  one  in  your  answer  script. So  let's  see  what  the  answer  looked  like. But  before  that,  let's  also look  a  little  bit  on  the  questions,  right? Okay.  The  instructions  given fill  in  values  for  x, G  x  and  f  x  in  the  table. So  this  is  a  table  given  to  you,  right. You're  free  to  select  20 suitable  values  of  x  to work  out  an  approximate optimum  value  for  exercising. Right  state  the  optimum  time  for exercising  in  minutes  per  day. So  instruction  is  actually  very  clear. It  says  in  this  table  here, choose  20  different  values  of  x, choose  any  20  different  values. And  x  of  course, is  a  fraction  0-1. And  then  Gx  is the  function  that  was  given  earlier  on, F  X,  the  heart  B. And  F  star  x, that  is  the  second  part, the  fitness  function  for to  scale  the  fitness  value. Okay.  So  how  do  you  work  this? Well,  instruction  is  all  there.  All  right. Just  take  x  value, choose  20  different  values. Now,  of  course,  I  think  you  must also  exercise  a  little  bit  of  discretion as  to  choose  appropriate  values  of  x. Okay? Because  you're  trying  to  find  that  optimum  x, you  cannot  be  just  choosing  like 0.80  0.9  and  so  on.  All  right. So So  let's  say you  choose  these  values  here. 0.010  0.01  0.020  0.03  0.04. So  you  will  use  your  calculator and  calculate  all  this. Can  you  do  a  couple?  Take  out  your  cal  tip. Just  get  a  couple  of  couple  of set  of  values. Okay. So  again,  take  note,  this is  for  you  to  choose,  you  know? So  this  is  an  example of  values  that  I've  chosen. Okay. I'm  quite  confident,  I  trust  that calculating  these  values  is not  an  issue  at  all,  right? So  I've  done  the  calculations, but  before  we  Before  I  show  you  that, let's  just  remind  ourselves. We  want  to  free  to  select  20  values, and  work  out  an  approximate  optimum  value. So  from  the  values  that  we  have  tabulated, hopefully  that  will  give  us  something  that's close  to  the  optimum  value. Of  course,  X  is  a  real  value. I'm  not  asking  for  the  precise  real  value. So  it's  actually  approximate  optimum  value. State  the  optimum  time  for exercising  in  minutes  per  day. So  that's  Part  one.  And  then  after  that, Part  two  write  the  suitable  fitness  function. So  let's  go  back  to  the  slide  and. All  right.  So  these  are the  values  we  have  chosen. So  you  did  the  calculations  of  G x  and  you  did  the  calculation  for  F  X. And  So  if  you  calculate, so  this  will  be  the  values. Okay. So  these  will  be  the  values  based  on our  calculations  for  the  x. So  again,  you  may  choose different  values  of  x,  right? Now,  what  do  you  see  in  this? Which  value  of  x  gives  you the  optimum  based  on  what  you  have  chosen? The  most  optimum  would  have  to  be the  value  that  is  the  smallest because  we  want  a  low  resting  heart  beat. If  you  look  under  f  x, the  lowest  values  you  got  is  53.327. So  that  would  be  the  approximate  x. Gives  you  the  optimum  time  to  exercise. 0.04.  Now,  of  course, I  think  it  will  also  be  nice,  you  know, if  you  can  make some  adjustment  and  even get  even  closer,  right? L  0.38,  0.038,  0.037. So  that  will  give  you  even closer  to  the  optimum. Okay.  But  nevertheless,  I  think 0.04  is  acceptable,  right? So  the  actual  optimum  is  about  0.0  0.037. Let's  say  you  go  0.04,  what  does  that  mean? So  that  means  a  percentage  or  the  ratio  of time  for  keeping  active  or  exercising. Right? Now,  of  course,  it's  more  meaningful  if we  get  the  perspective in  terms  of  a  per  day.  What  does  that  mean? So  the  question  asked,  you  know, how  many  minutes  per day  you  spend  on  exercising? So  you  take  0.04,  right? Times  times  24  hours  and  then  times  60. So  that  will  give  you  the  minutes. So  that  should  give  you  about  58  minutes. Right?  So  this  calculation based  on  this  calculation or  the  model  that's  shown, you  spend  you  should  spend about  58  minutes  or  so  in  exercising. And  then  the  second  part  of  it, right?  Suitable  fitness  function. So  the  second  part  of  the  question  is, I  think  this  is where  some  people  may find  it  a  little  challenge,  right? Not  too  difficult  a  challenge. So  this  has  to  do with  with  the  values  that  we  get. All  right.  So  of  course,  it's  easy  to  say, a,  the  fitness  is  proportional. Proportional  to  the  so called  the  value  of  the  heart  beats. But  if  you  take  literally  these  values, then  the  differentiation  between the  different  value  of x  is  not  so  significant. You  can  see  that  the  range  of heart  beats  is  on  a  very  tight  range  here, it  is  one  to  71,  and  so  on. Therefore,  in  order  to  have a  better  fitness  representation to  make  selection  more  efficient. Or  more  effective. We  can  use  a  fitness  function  like  this, one  minus  absolute  f  x  -50, y  -50  because  it  can  never  be  lower  than  50. That's  just  the  model. The  model,  it  can  never  be  less  than  50. Absolute  F  x  -50  and  then  divided  by  70. Right.  So  according  to the  table  there,  right?  70  75. So  you  might  ask, is  there  a  specific  value? Well,  generally,  no. So  what  I'm  looking  for something  like  this,  you  know, something  a  suitable  fitness  function,  right? So  as  long  as  the  values  are reasonable,  right, you  can  you  say  70  or  75  or  even  80, I  think  that  is  acceptable. Okay. So  description  of  the  problem  a  little  bit lengthy  or  even  sounds  a  little  bit  daunting. But  actually  the  solving  aspect  of  it  is actually  quite  straightforward and  manageable. Okay.  So  the  next  part, So  this  problem  obviously, it  is  not  a  difficult  problem. All  right.  So  not  difficult. It's  a  single  variable convex  kind  of  landscape. So  definitely  solve  p  time. All  right?  Very  simple  problem. From  a  optimization  perspective. So  that  is  the  question. Let's  I got  to  escape. And  let's  look  at the  second  part  of  the  question. Okay. Okay. Let's  test  your  understanding  on so  called  categori characterizations  of  problems. So  in  this  question, P  B  of  the  que  So  based  on categorization  on  the  type of  problems  according  to generic  input  output  model, lock  architecture. Which  type  of  problems  would  you  categorize the  following  provide  explanations for  the  choice  of  your  categorization. All  right?  S,  I  think  mo of  you  would  know or  probably  will  get  it  right. But  hopefully  you will  provide  certain  justifications or  explanations  why  you think  it  belongs  to  a  certain  class. Let's  take  a  look  at  the  first  one, prediction  of  IBM  share  price  based on  historical  valuation  for  trading  purpose. Valuation  means  a  stock  price. Let's  say  you  have  you  have data  of  the  price  the  stock  price  of  IPN. So  now  you  want to  you  want  to  predict?  All  right? You  want  to  predict  the  price  of  IBM,  right? The  price  of  IBM  in  the  future. So  you're  doing  prediction. So  which  category  or problem  do  you  think  you  fall  in? Simulation,  Optimization. Mm  hmm.  Do  you  say  optimization? Anybody  think  it's  modeling? I  trust  many  would  think it  is  modeling,  right? And  that  should  be  quite appropriate  to  say  that this  is  a  kind  of  modeling. So  you're  trying  to  find  a  model,  right? So  you're  trying  to  find  a  model based  on  the  past  historical  data. So  this  is  likely  to  be  a  modeling  problem. Time  series  data  with corresponding  valuation  of  share for  past  trading  are  already  known. All  these  are  historical  data. So  we  can  use  it  to  fit  the  model  where the  error  of  prediction  is  minimized,  right? So  finding  a  model,  right? Finding  a  prediction  model. What  about  the  second  one? You  have  a  packing  problem. All  right?  You're  trying  to  pack  boxes. Packing  of  outsize  boxes into  a  truck  for  delivery. All  right?  Obviously,  you  know, a  truck  truck  has a  fixed  space  or  volume. All  right?  Now,  you  have  all  those  boxes. So  you're  trying  to  fit  it. What's  the  objective  of  fitting it?  What's  the  objective? You  want  to  minimize  minimize  what? Empty  space,  right? Because  the  boxes  are  all  odd  sizes. So  you  got  to  optimize  it,  right? So  quite  clearly,  and the  goal  of  optimization is  to  minimize the  unused  space  or  empty  space. Okay? I  think  this  should  be  more  appropriately the  unfilled  space,  right? The  volume  of  the  unfilled space  is  minimized. And  then  the  third  one,  policy  making for  country's  economic  planning  unit. So  assuming  that  you are  in  a  certain  department,  right, you  are  working  on  strategy, right,  strategy  and  planning. All  right.  So  you're  trying to  come  up  with  certain  policies, let's  say  to  maybe  to  encourage,  right? Or  to  have  a  higher  population. Okay. So  this  policy,  how  can  you  know  whether the  policy  is  working  or not  or  will  have  the  desired  effect? So  how  can  we  do  it?  Optimization,  modeling? So  more  likely  to  be  simulation. All  right?  Simulation.  Okay. So  you  would  based  on a  certain  policy,  then  you  simulate, making  based  on  so called  assumptions,  you  know, and  simulate  what  could  be the  possible  manifestation  of  those  policies. And  the  next  one, rostering  of  security  guards in  a  gated  apartment  complex. We  talked  a  lot  about  scheduling. So  in  the  first  lecture, we  talked  quite  a  bit  about  scheduling or  time  tableing,  and  so  on. So  this  is  also  quite  similar. Right?  So  you're  trying  to roster  so  you  want  so  called appropriate  allocation  of  time to  based  on  the  resources  that  you  have, that  will  be  the  security  guards or  personnel,  right? So  you  would  have  seen it  as  optimization,  okay? But  it  is  also  possible  if  it is  a  simulation  problem,  okay? So  if  your  simulation  is  quite  often,  right, in  situations  where  the environment  in a  dynamic  environment  or  dynamic  situation. It  could  be  a  simulation  problem, for  example,  you  want  to  study,  right? You  want  to  understand different  maybe  the  guts have  different  capability  and  so  on. So  you  want  to  study  certain  aspects  of it  that  that  is  dynamic  in  nature. Okay.  But  regardless,  I think  both  optimization or  whatever  you  choose, you  offer  some  explanations. Okay.  Let's  look  at  one  more  question. And  then  D  should  do  it. So  I  want  to  I would  like  to  look  at  something that  you  are  quite  familiar. I  think  so  we  enlarge  this. Okay.  So  so  this  problem  was  set for  last  year,  Semester  two,  2024. So  this  is  Anne  Queens. So  that  Q  equal  to. So  that's  the  coding  the  genome, Q,  Q  n  B  the  permutation  string, coding  for  GA,  where  the  value  of  Qi denotes  the  column  position  of  the  gene. In  other  words,  the  allele  represents  one. QI  denotes  the  column  position,  Qi, the  value  of  Qi,  that's a  column  position.  So  the  all. The  value  of  the  gene  represents  the  column. So  the  pedo  code  for  computing  the  number  of conflicts  among  the  n  number of  wins  is  as  follow. This  is  a  so,  the  procedure, count  equal  to  zero, and  then  you  have  two  nested  loop for  equal  to  one  to  n  minus  one. And  then  nested  within  it  for  j  equal  to i  plus  one  to  n.  Now, in  the  loot,  what  happens  is something  that  you  are  very  familiar  with. So  you  calculate  d  one,  the  difference. There's  the  allele. The  value  of  the  gene, Q  i  minus  Q  j. Then  d  two  is  the  difference  between  i  and  j. D  two  is  j  minus. Accordingly,  if  d  one  equal  to  d  two, your  count  equal  to  count  plus  one, meaning  that  there's  conflict. So  if  this  condition  is  satisfied, d  one  and  d  two  are  the  same, then  there's  a  conflict. This  is  a  do  an  equation for  the  number  of  diagonal  conflicts. And  then  based  on  your  equation, calculate  CQ  for  Q equal  to  this  configuration, e.  And  then  subsequently, if  the  GA  evaluates  the  quality  of a  chromosome  as  fitness  value in  the  range  zero  to  one, where  one  represents  zero  conflict, write  a  suitable  fitness  function F  Q  in  terms  of C  Q  for  a  general  en  Q  problem. Write  for  a  general  en  Qin  problem. Now,  this  equation,  of, because  you've  seen  it  so  many  times, so  it  is  not  too  difficult. But  most  people  stumble  on  this  part,  right, renting  for  a  general  queen, can  be  any  value  of  n.  Okay. So  that  of  course, it's  not  too  difficult, but  I  think  that's where  some  people  or  some  of  you  may  stumble. So  to  to  solve this  p  stick  a  little.  R. So  this  equation  looks  all  too  familiar  to you  because  we  have  seen  it  or we  have  done  it  a  few  times. So  the  two  nested  loops  that  were presented  in  the  question,  right? In  the  zo  code,  manifests itself  as  these  two  big  Sigma  here. So  the  first,  the  outer  loop, equal  to  one  to  n  minus  one, the  bigger  Sigma,  and then  the  inner  loop  equal  to  p  one  to  n. No. And  then  you  have  d  d  equal  to one  minus  Q  j  equal  to  j  minus. Zero  otherwise.  The  kind of  equation  you've  seen it  in  the  course  of what  we've  done  over the  past  couple  of  weeks. Now  you  have  this  configuration. Now  this  is  your  so  called  the  equation. You're  going  to  calculate  to determine  the  number  of  conflicts. So  if  I  were  to  give  you  Q  equal to  this  27846135,  right? So  the  question  says, you  use  the  equation  to  calculate. So  obviously,  you  use  this  equation,  right. But  at  the  side  of  it, if  you  choose  to  draw  out this,  there's  nothing  wrong. All  right.  So  there's  no  penalty  if  you figure  out  the  number of  conflicts  based  on  this  configuration, right  by  drawing  it  out.  Okay. But  of  course,  being  able  to  do it  by  understanding  the  equation. Even  if  you  are  given n  equal  to  50,  for  example, you  can  literally  figure  out how  many  conflicts  without having  to  draw  up  the  configuration. Because  if  you  understand what  this  equation  is  trying  to  do, you  just  go  to  each  gene  value, take  the  difference  between the  gene  of  the  pair  of  gene  values  and then  see  whether  it  is  same  as the  difference  between  the  position of  the  gene  in  the  chromosome. So  you  can  check  through each  one  very  quickly. Quite  clearly,  if  you look  at  the  value,  for  example, two,  and  six,  focus  on  two  and  six. So  the  first  ten, six  is  the  fifth  gen, six,  the  value  six  is  the  fifth  gen, and  the  value  two  is  the  first  gen. Meaning  i  is  equal  to  one, and  then  j  equal  to  five. J  minus  five  minus  one  is  four. Then  you  look  at  the  so  called  the  value of  the  allele,  two, and  66  minus  two  equal  to  four, so  it's  same  as  j  minus  i, which  means  as  a  conflict. If  you  are  comfortable  with  it, you  can  cycle  through  all  the  values  and then  come  up  with  the  number of  conflicts  quite  easily. From  here,  you  can  see  C  Q  equal  to  three. Now  the  question  says, F  come  up  with  the  fitness  function. Come  up  with  the  fitness  function. And  it  wants  a  general  form of  the  fitness  function. What  we've  done  earlier  on, we  know  for  eight  e  is  28. We  we  normalize  it  to 28  because  we  know  there's the  maximum  number  of  conflicts. So  what  about  if  it's  100  queens? What's  the  value? So  if  it's  100  or  1,000,  what's  the  value? Right?  What  is  the  value  in  the  denominator? Of  course,  I  think  you  know  in the  number  number  series. So  if  you  were  to  sum  up  the  number  series, you  know  that  the  maximum  number of  conflicts  is  based  on  so  called  C  n  two. C  n  two  means  n  times  n  -1/2. So  based  on  that  realization, you  can  write  the  general  form of  the  fitness  equation. F  Q  is  one  minus  two  times  c  Q divided  by  n  times  n  minus  one. So  that's  a  general  form of  the  fitness  equation. Okay.  So  you've  seen  it  so  many  times,  right? So  if  if  the  quiz  or  even  the  exam, quiz,  I  think  you  will  be quite  comfortable  in  dealing  with  it. Okay,  as  the  second  part. Let's  do  the  second  part. And  then  we  should  be  done. Okay.  Let's  work  on  the  second  part. You  are  required  to optimize  n  dimensional  function  using veal  value  coded  GA.  For  n  equal  to  five, meaning  five  dimensions,  the  chromosome x  is  represented  as  x1x2, x3x  or  x  five. These  are  the  five  variables. Five  dimension  problem. If  this  is  a  five  dimension  problem, when  you  solve  it, you  solve  for  the  optimum  value  for the  five  variables  x  one  to  x  five. The  function  to  optimize is  as  given  here,  F  x, summation  of  i  equal  to  one  to  n,  x  i, and  then  summation  minus  summation of  i  equal  to  one  to  n  x  i  squared. This  is  the  function you're  trying  to  optimize. So  the  question  asked  is  as  such, perform  arithmetic  crossover  operation on  the  two  chromosomes. A  equal  to  all  the  variables  x  one  to  x  five, 08,637.2,  and  B  as  given  here, using  a  flexible  Alpha  approach. What's  Alpha  Alpha  is  a  so  called  the  factor, that's  the  apportionment  between  the  parents. Right?  We've  seen  this  in  our  real  value coded  GA. So  that  Alpha,  a  lot  of  times  you  use  0.5. Right?  Many  of  the  previous  work  use equal  apportionment  between  the  two  parents. Choosing  Alpha  to  be  0.5, which  is  quite  a  natural  thing  to  do. But  of  course,  that  doesn't  stop  you from  experimenting with  different  values  of  Alpha, or  even  in  this  case  here, to  have  an  approach  that  does  it in  a  flexible  manner. In  the  flexible  Alpha  approach, Alpha  is  equal  to  absolute difference  of  the  fitness  of A  and  the  fitness  of B  divided  by  the  sum  of  both  the  fitness. Now  you're  asked  to  determine the  values  of  F  A, B,  F  A  prime, F  B  prime,  where  A  prime  and  B  prime are  the  offspring  after  crossover. So  the  questions  on its  own  to  do  the  calculation. If  you  really  understand  it, it  is  no  big  problem  or  no  big  issue,  right? It's  just  whipping  out  the  calculator and  to  be  able  to  do  the  calculations. But  the  question  that  follows  may need  some  thinking  or  reasoning. Part  two,  argue  either  for  or  against the  use  of  such  a  method  of  crossover. Okay.  So  I  work  out  the  calculations  and So  I  did  this  in  Excel,  right. So  you  can  see that  based  on  the  function given  in  the  question. F  A  0.98  from  Excel  spreadsheet  and  F  B  0.67. So  knowing  F  A  and  F  B, we  can  determine  Alpha. So  once  we  determine  Alpha, we  can  determine  the  values  of  X  one, X  two,  x3x1,  x  five. After  based  on  F  A  and  F  B, we  know  Alpha,  and  then  based  on  Alpha, we  determine  this  set  of  values. Based  on  this  set  of  values, we  can  determine  F  A prime  and  then  F  B  prime. That's  the  result  of  the  crossover. Okay.  So  calculations  quite  simple. Quite  with  the  base with  the  understanding  that  you  actually know  or  understand  about  so  called the  crossover  for  real  values. Now,  here's  a  catch. We  have  done  with  this  flexible  alpha  here. Do  you  think  it's  good?  God  or no  good  is  for  you  to  say, but  you  need  to  justify. Right?  Either  way  is  possible. So  you  might  say,  right? This  is  no  good.  It  is  not  necessary. Meaning  that  you  against or  you  don't  think  it  is  suitable. Right?  It's  not  enough  just  to  say you  are  against  it and  it  is  no  good,  you  know, you  must  have  somewhat  of a  view  or  explanations why  it's  no  good,  right? So  why  do  you  suppose  it  is no  good  if  you  were  to say  it  is  not  beneficial. Well,  when  you  do  recommendation.  All  right. So  in  many  problems, we  actually  don't  know the  solution  landscape,  right? So  we  don't  know  the  solution  landscape. So  when  we  do  the  Alpha,  right? How  is  going  to  correlate or  benefit  the  s  in  the  space? We  don't  really  know,  right? But  the  fact  is  that  in  this  procedure  here, you  actually  need  to  calculate  the  Alpha. All  right. You  need  to  calculate  So that  may  sound  very  trivial, but  then  if  you  have a  hyper  dimensional  kind  of  problem, that  cost  of  computing the  Alpha  is  an  added  cost  or  overhead. Right?  So  when  we  talk  about  hyper  dimension, it  could  mean  like  maybe  n  equal to  500  or  1,000,  right? So  that  is  really  hypo  dimension. So  then  the  added  cost  in computing  the  Alpha  could be  very  significant. So  I  would  like  to  think  that, you  know  the  argument or  the  reasoning  or  justification  for not  not  liking  or not  supporting  this  approach. Could  be  something  like  this.  It's  based on  the  consideration  of the  cost  in  computing. Computation  involved  in  calculating the  Alpha  value  can  be  very  significant. Can  be  very  significant. If  you  compare  it  to standard  aromatic  crossover  operation, flexible  Alpha,  the  additional computing  cost  increases  manifold. Rather  than  using  a  fixed  value, then  in  the  flexible  Alpha, of  co  the  fitness  is  needed, and  then  you  need  to  compute. Right? Again,  remember,  GA  is  doing  many, many  iterations,  in  a  population. There  are  actually  many,  individuals. So  it  is  unlikely  that  the  cost  of that  additional  computational  resources warrants  the  improvement,  if  any,  right? If  any,  we  don't  really  know. But  of  course,  based  on  earlier  work, we  know  that  Alpha  equal  to  0.5. Earlier  researchers  tend  to use  very  simplistic  approach, Alpha  equal  to  0.5, and  it  seems  to  work  reasonably  well. So  how  much  of  a  improvement  we  get, don't  really  know,  it  all  depends on  the  problem.  Okay. So  for  very  high  dimensional  problems, this  additional  computational  cost is  even  more  serious. So  that  is  if  you  argue or  you  reason  that  it  is  no  good. Now,  what  will  be  the  case  if you  argue  or  you  justify  that  this  is  good. If  you  are  for  this  approach, what  would  be  your  line of  reasoning  or  justification? So  remember  what  I  said  about  the  problem, you  don't  really  know,  right? You  don't  understand  the so  called  the  landscape, the  solution  landscape,  okay? So  early  on,  we  argue  we  don't  know. So  at  that  cost,  how much  is  going  to  improve, we  don't  know,  right? So  by  the  same  token, you  don't  know,  right? So  it  could  be  by  having this  so  called  flexible  alpha  approach. It  may  work  on  some  of  the  landscape. So  in  that  sense,  there's a  possibility  that  it  may also  improve  on  the  performance,  right. So  if  you  were  to argue  or  believe  that  this  approach  is  good. So  your  reasoning  may  go  something  like  this. If  we  believe  that  the  performance of  the  algorithm  is sensitive  to  the  value  of Alpha  chosen  for  crossover, then  it  may  be  worth  that  additional  cost  of calculating  the  Alpha according  to  the  fitness. With  the  flexible  Alpha  approach, each  crossover  results  in  two  offspring. Fewer  crossover  to replenish  the  whole  population. So  it's  believable  that the  nature  or  characteristics of  some  problems  may  benefit from  such  a  selection  scheme. So  the  last  point  is important  because  we  don't  know, the  nature  or  we don't  understand  the  solution, the  landscape  of the  problem  we  are  dealing  with. So  there's  always  that  possibility. That  this  adaptation  of  changing Alpha  according  to  fitness  may benefit  some  problems  in  that  sense. Okay.  So  these  are the  two  problems  I just  want  to  show  and  demonstrate. And  I  think  I don't  know  whether  you  agree  or  not, they  are  not  too  complicated. A  lot  of  it  is  certain  parts of  it  or  certain  portion  of  it. I  think  you  would  already have  understanding  or  knowledge. Right?  And  then  usually there  will  be  a  small  part  they may  catch  you  off  dud  a  little  bit, which  you  may  require  you to  think  a  little  bit,  right? So  typically,  that  is the  case  on  how  the  questions  are  presented. So  later  on,  we  will start  the  quiz  at  9:30  Sharp, and  you  already  know  where  you'll  be  seated. So  one  of  the  three  locations, and  no  calculators  is  needed,  right? Only  your  pen  and your  identification,  that's  all. So  if  you  need  not  even  rough  paper, right  for  rough  work, I  will  give  you  the  rough  paper. All  right.  So  you  can  take  a  break,  right? And  then  come  back.  Now  it's  eight. Yeah.  You  have  more  than  1  hour  of  the  break, but  I  I  will  have to  I  will  have  some  student  assistance  to come  and  assist  me  and  I  need  to  do some  logistic  setup  also. So  I  see  you  at  9:30. C.  All  right.  See  you. Okay,  if  you  have  any  questions, I  can  you  may  approach  me, right  on  any  Because  we  still  have  time. Hi,  everyone. You  do  the  order. Hello.  Okay.  Hi,  everyone. Please  make  sure  you  have  like one  seat  distance  between another  student  for  the  test. Yeah.  So  make  sure  your  left and  right  doesn't  have  a  student.  Thank  you. That's a  repeat. Separate. Seven  and  seven. 72  people  67 at  like nine  views Left  right  f.  I didn't  think  as  long  as  I  can. You  don't. Yeah,  I  I  I be Hi. So  if  you  have, like,  two  seats  empty  beside  you, can  you  shift  over,  so  then  we  can open  up  more  seats  for  the  remaining  people. Interesting. Okay,  I  need  you  to  help  me  a  bit, you  know,  do  adjust  a  little  bit,  you  know, leave  because  I  I  think  it  may  be a  little  bit  tough  I think  we  should  be  able  to  fit,  right? If  not,  some  parts  of  it, we'll  just  have  to  sit  next to  each  other,  some  of  you. Can  you  adjust  a  I see  some  empty  seats  there? Okay,  can. Okay.  Obviously,  I  underestimated. So  maybe  those  of  you  who don't  have  a  seat,  the  front  row. The  front  row,  you  can  sit  side  by  side. There's  an  empty  seat  here.  Can  you  shift? No.  The  won  Okay  Yeah. The  front  row,  you  can  sit  side  by  side. Okay,  under  estimated. Yeah. Okay.  We'll  make  it.  No  worry. Okay.  S.  Yeah. Come. Yeah.  All  taken. M. Okay,  very  nice. We  made  it.  All  right. So  I  will  now  distribute  the  papers. So  the  question  paper  is just  one  sheet  of  paper  on  both  sides. So  each  one  of  you  will  have a  question  paper  and a  blank  sheet  of  paper,  right? After  the  exam,  don't take  anything  back.  All  right. Even  the  blank  paper, or  if  you've  written  your  answer on  the  blank  sheet  of  paper, the  rough  paper,  write  your  name, or  your  serial  number  or  name,  right? If  you  want  it  to  be  cos.  Okay. So  let's Okay,  I  know  I've  given  you  instructions, no  phone,  no  calculator, no  smart  devices  and  so  on. This  is  very  strict, and  I  think  they  have  been instructed  to  just  take picture  without  you  knowing  it, you  know,  If  you  are  touching your  phone  during  the  quiz,  right? If  you're  touching  your  phone, you're  touching  your  calor, whatever  it  is,  they  will  just  take  picture. Okay?  That  is  enough. S,  please  observe  this very  strictly  because  I  don't  like  to be  in  a  position  where  I  have  to  hand  this in  and  let  the  university  investigate,  right? And  I  still  see  some  phones, somebody  holding  phones  and  all  that  is  very, very  so  called  inappropriate.
