Lecture  eight  will  be  done  by  the  two  of  us. We  call  it  gets  part  one. Then  of  the  date  will  be  Simon  Dell, who  is  also  part  time, is  a  a  associate  professor. He's  also  teaching  the  NLP,  6405. So  of  you  may  also  know  him.  Okay. Yeah,  this  is  again the  reminder  also  already  in NT  learn  because  our  class  size is  just  half  of  this  LT. All  the  students  during  the  quiz, you  can  do  it  here  because if  there  are  more  students, we  need  to  move  some  student  to another  LT  or  Tutorial  room  not  EG, but  now  just  to  make  it. Okay.  So  I  I  may  make  an  announcement  again. The  future  proto  do because  you  will  take  over  from  next  week. And  each  quiz  will  be  only  15  minutes  here. And  how  to  do  that. There  will  not  include  this  one. Then  I  prepare  another  documents. Yeah,  this  is  super  one. Yeah.  Anyway,  I  think  more will  be  discussed  in subsequent  week  by  proto  because the  first  quiz  will  only  be  tan  week  Fine. I  mean,  three  weeks  from  now. Yeah.  This  is  one  here  and you  need  lockdown  browsers. Or  most  of  the  new  students you  may  be  new  to  you. So  we  play  not  confirmed  yet. We're  planning  to  do  a  test at  the  beginning  of  four. But  I'll  need  to  discuss  with  proto  here. Maybe  just  for  ten  or  15  minutes. So  everyone  so  bring your  PC  or  some  of  you  don't  have  PC, say  only  IP  I'm  not  sure. PC  windows  should  walk. So  that  was  it's  being  done. Before,  but  if  you  are using  IPE,  I'm  not  sure. If  you  are  using  Apple  be  more  complicated. I  just  want  to tell  you  because  some  other  courses, they  are  also  doing  similar. I  think  it's  better  for  you to  prepare  for  this  for  new  students. Okay.  Yeah.  That's  about some  logistic  matters. And  again,  regarding  the  Regarding  the  books, we  have  the  textbooks freely  available  from  NT  library. You  need  to  you  need to  use  your  student  account  to  log  in. Then  you'll  be  able  to  get  the  book. Yeah.  This  is  the  textbook  and  D  library. Is  online  available. You  can  read  there.  Not  sure. Probably  can  download  the  PDF  by  not  be. You  can  test  and  there  are  some  references. The  book  is  also useful  because  we  have  every  chapter. Most  of  the  chapter  some  exercises and  also  have  solutions  at  the  end. So  that  could  be, you  know,  helpful  for  you. Okay.  Anything? If  you  have  any  questions  and  anything, do  feel  free  to  ask  me  or ask  the  other  two  profess. I  already  introduced the  profile  very  briefly.  Last. You  can  we  already make  the  video  recording  available. You  go  to  n. You  should  be  able  to  view  it  also. Okay.  Always  free. I'm  the  coordinator  so you  can  e  mail  me  so  no. A  yeah. Any  questions  that  can  you  let  me  know. So  if  no  other  issue, we  can  start  the  new  lecture  today. So  this  is  not  the  ma  Web  two  parts. We  will  go  this  one  first. That's  about  data  pre  processing. And  I  think  last  Last  week, we  also  have  the  road  map about  how  is  the  week. You  can  see  here  the  first  lecture  is  more like  general  introductions  about motivations  and  try  to link  the  two  part  because  we  have analytic  learning  machine  learning and  sample  machine  learning. Out  of  data  you  can  also  see data  pre  processing  will  be  useful  for  both. Actually  not  just  here. It  can  be  any  other  machine  learning  methods. You  still  need  to  do  it. That's  considered  basic. But  in  terms  of  quiz  and  exams, most  likely,  the  first  lecture  will  not  be general  introduction  not  be cover  for  quiz  for  final  exam. But  the  lecture  to today  for  the  data  pre  processing, will  be  include  quiz. I  hope  you  pay  more  attention  today. And  that's  That's  about review  of  what  you  know, we  discussed  last  week also  for  the  whole  cost,  the  logistic. If  no  we  can  see this  computer  Let  see  the  screen  here. Be Actually, we  use  the  power  point  easier, but  let  me  see.  Now  I  got  it. E.  Let  me  figure  out  how  to  do  this. Let's  finally. Full  screen  so  small.  Big  se. Let's  see  how  we  go  one  page  one  page. That's  plus  s.  So obvious.  Thanks  for  the  help. This  is  new  setting. Not  too  familiar  with  this. Every  PC  is  a  different  setting  for  this. Okay.  Yeah.  Good  evening. We  continue  with  this  lecture I  think  you  should  know  me. My  name  is  P  L. But  of  course  here  is already  mentioned  or  discussed  last  week, we  will  be  covering  two  parts. One  is  analytic  learning, and  the  other  is  semble  learning. These  are  part  of  the  topic of  the  broader  fear  of  machine  learning. Not  working  go. Yeah  the  page  is not  working  but  were  doing  manually. I  think  the  contains  to  be  cobs. We  style  is  consider the  linking  of  the  lecture  one  and  what will  be  going  in the  next  few  lectures  about  more  about pattern  recognitions  because  I think  pattern  recognition  is one  of  the  main  topic  machine  lining. Then  after  that,  we  will  see  what  the  data pre  processing  fit  into  this  pipeline. So  this  is  I think  most  of  you already  experience  doing  that. So  the  pipeline  is the  machine  lining  here  is  based  on  Data. We  start  with  some  row  data. Then  come  to  now  this  preprocessing step  up  the  dt  usually  we  do  feature  etction. Even  nowaday  step  blending, still  play  these  roles  except  will  do  it  n  by n.  You  can  see this  is  s  one  of  the  components. Then  after  data  you  can do  training  the  features. Come  to  two  paths, one  is  you  do  a  training  to  do a  model  selection  because  there  are many  different  mach  learning  model. Then  up  to  date  based  on  the  data, you  do  learning  and  train  the  prediction. Prediction  here  is  quite broad  in  the  broad  sings, it  can  be  classification, can  be  recognition  or  prediction. We  put  it  in one  proto  in  the  subsequent  week, you  will  elaborate  more  about the  relationship  like  verifications, and  so  on. But  here  we  just consider  the  more  general  pine. Once  you  already  trained  the  model, then  you'll  come  to  the  testing or  So  we  don't  need  to  train  the  model  again, but  we  still  need  to  get  the  test  features. And  then  after  the  EOs,  the  model, you  already  learned  to do  the  test  prediction. This  is  the  very  general  pipeline. Then  because  of  the  importance  of, you  know,  to  get  the  good  quality  of  data. We  need  to  do  some  data  preprocessing. If  you  go  to  any  machine  learning lecture  books  or  even  UT, they  always  have  this. Some  books  cover  quite  a  lot. The  including some  detailed  discussion of  data  transformation or  data  or  dimension  reduction, even  including  wave  transforms or  some  other  transform. But  here  we  are  talking more  common  data  pre  processing. It's  not  very  comprehensive, but  it  does  cover  the  fundamental. What  we'll  be  doing  here  is to  prepare  the  data  because  we  want to  get  a  good  representation  from  the  data. Then  one  of  the  important  step is  to  do  the  normalizations. Normalization  is  in  process, not  just  normalized  data, but  include  probably  try to  handle  those  outliers, missing  data  and  and  then  we  also  need  to  do the  data  conversions  from different  data  type  into  those where  you  can  process  using the  numerical  algorithm  because some  of  the  data, particularly  like  category  data. Later  we'll  talk  about  or  bu  and  so  on, which  may  not  be  very easy  or  not  so  convenient  to  be  processed. We  want  to  do  this  data  conversion. This  is  what  we'll be  focusing  on  in  these  lectures. I  think  feature  etction  is  because  of  course, you  start  with  raw  data,  there  will  be  huge. Normally,  most  of  the  time, we  do  not  directly  process  the  raw  data. Now  as  I  say,  if  you are  using  the  n  to  n  dives, you  can  consider  doing  all  these  tasks. In  the  deep  neural  network, but  I  think  it's  still  good  to  understand that  the  stat  involved  picar  ly, if  you  are  handling  some, like  small  or  medium  size  of the  real  practical  problems. Okay.  What  I  do  feature  is  you transform  the  data  into  some  useful  features. But  even  in  this  case, the  feature  dimension  may  still  be large  and  some  of the  features  may  not  be  so  important, so  you  will  need  to do  either  the  feature  extraction or  future  selection  to get  the  more  meaningful  features out  of  this  given  one. Among  these  two,  the  feature  selection is  relatively  easier. Given,  for  example,  some  feature  vector. You'll  just  select  based on  certain  criterion, the  more  important  one  to  do the  selection  or  giving  some  weight. But  sometimes  you  may  want  to  do some  transformation  by  making these  features  to  be  more representative  and  as  I  mentioned, you  can  even  reduce  the  dimensions  further. So  these  two  are  closely  related, just  handling,  you  know, the  features  to  reduce the  dimension  and  at  the  same  time, select  or  extract  the  more  useful  feature. Yeah,  I  think  there are  several  techniques  available. In  the  facial  reductions, you  will  also  learn  from  other  courses. It's  not  the  emphasis  here. There  are  very  well  known  techniques such  as  PCA, which  is  principal  component  analysis or  independent  analysis,  ICA. These  are  very  popular  if you  are  uh,  dealing  with  images, video,  and  so  on  and  in  the  well, other  courses,  they  are emphasizing  more  on  patent  recognition. So  there  will  be  more  discussion on  that  not  the  emphasis  here. And  this  is  one  way. And  then  there  are  also some  other  technique  to  etting, sematic  features, such  as  you  can  do  the  edge  detection, corner  detection,  and  so  on  ge  detection. I  think  some  of  these  technique  will  be discussed  in  subsequent  lectures  also. In  terms  of  learning  this This  is  here,  we  just  give the  very  general  mapping because  as  I  mentioned, our  learning  here  is  based  on  input  data, which  in  this  case, you  can  represent  the  by  capital  X. So  that  means  genetically,  we  have  the  input. And  there  you  go  through  certain  functions. Even  the  neural  network  here, it's  not  necessarily  neural  network, it  can  be  other  ways  such as  decision  tree  and  SBM, which  may  not  be considered  as  neuro  network  here. And  you  transform  the  data into  another  output  data. We  call  it  Y. This  is  a  very  general  way to  represent  it  and  Of  course, how  to  get  these  functions and  then  there  will  be the  topic  to  be discussed  in  more  detail  later, but  just  keep  in  mind this  mappings  or  we  call  it  learnings. Yeah. So  therefore,  if  you  are given  some  training  data, then  after  you're  training  this, the  function  of  F. The  purpose  of  machine  learning  here  is whether  analytic  or  ensemble  learning is  always try  to  apply  to  some  real  test  samples or  in  the  for  example, in  the  case  of  you  try  to simulate  a  medical  doctor  train  the  machine. And  then  now  you'll  come  to a  real  person  who  you  can  test  using this  learn  model  to  see  whether this  patient  ko  BGs and  so  of  course  you  need  to base  on  the  new  data, the  new  features, you  learn  what  we  call  cast  features. For  example,  you  have  CT  or  X  ray  and  so  on. That's  what  we  call prediction  and  category  dicision, by  using  what  you  have  learned  to  do. Then  after  that,  again, these  are  also  very  important. How  do  you  evaluate whether  the  model  you  learn or  the  past  you perform  is  good  or  or  not  good. You  need  some  kind  of performance  evaluations. Here  is  very  important, we  will  see  whatever  learning  model you  have  already done  whether  it  has this  generalization  capability  because what  you  learn  is  always  limited, particularly  if  you  are  dealing  with some  small  data  sample  case, like  in  the  medical  or  in  finance. The  learning  capability  is  very  important. That's  why  we  need  some  kind  of performance  metrics  to  evaluate. Again,  one  way  to  do  here  is  if  you  are  doing the  training  and  try to  try  to  evaluate whether  this  model  learn  is  suitable, then  there  are  several  ways  to  do. I  in  the  case, If  you  are  given  fine  amount  of  data, common  way  to  do  is  you  can  do this  fold  cross  validation. That  mean  you  chop  your  data  into  capital  f, and  you  use  n  minus f.  Try  to  make  use  of  the  data, use  more  data,  do, and  then  only  one  f  to  test that  you  swap  and  so  on, then  you  can  can  do  independent  repeat  tests. Again,  we  have  one  lecture, I  think  the  L  lecture  A, which  proto,  we  go into  more  detail  about  how  to do  the  performance  evaluation. Okay. So  that's  the  whole  pipeline, to  give  you  the  big  pictures  about the  machine  learning or  pattern  recognition  pipeline. So  from  here,  we're  just focusing  more  on  the  data  pre  processing. And  what's  data? You,  again,  there  are  several  ways of  several  definitions, depending  on  from  which angles  you  look  at  the  data  and you  want  to  get  a  more  so called  concrete  definition  recognizable. You  can  also  check  in  the  website, the  Internet  Wikipedia,  which  is comb  considered  as  popular. Many  people  read  that. We  can  see  data. Usually,  we  consider  as  a  collection  of discrete  or  continuous  value. Then  this  value,  it  can  convey some  information  and  also can  be  describing  some  quality, quantity,  fact,  statistic,  and  so  on. Whatever  information,  this  data  can  carry. But  here  is  very  important. We  are  not  Only talking  about  SEOs  for  information. I  could  be  wrong  information, could  be  misleading  information. So  it  can  carry  something. So  that's  why  Once  the  raw  data, it's  still  important  to  see what  is  the  better  quality  of  data. But  data  in  general, just  some  value,  desc  or  continue, but  it  carry  some  information. It's  very  broad  also. Can  see  about  the  example, which  is  very  easy  to  recognize from  the  digit  beta  set. This  is  in  the  earth. Early  days. We  are  doing  digit  recognitions. That's  the  one  very  easy. You  can  have  01,  two, three,  four,  and  so  on. These  are  ways  you  can  see. But  how  to  represent into  the  form  comp format  computer  can  recognize. Typically,  you  can  digitize, you'll  get  the  grad  lever, intensity  and  repenic. Depending  on  how  your  COVID it  can  be  in  image, it  can  be  one  to  255  or  0255. This  is  stained  away, or  you  can  also  you'll  see  the  color  images, you  also  need  to  divide into  GPs  and  so  or  you  can  have even  higher  resolutions  if you  really  need  that. So  this  is  a  very  typical  way of  representing,  you  know, the  data  using  data  to represent  certain  daily  life image,  videos,  and  so. Then  we  more  example like  this  is  also  very  common  to test  whether  your  machine  learning  model can  recognize  this  highly  no  linear. It's  a  spir  rod  pattern, which  several  spira  belong  to  one  class, you  can  see  this  way, and  the  other  one  on the  right  hand  side  will  be  the  bar  grab. This  is  easier  and  also  very  useful, simple,  because  in  many  Baby  life, we  very  often  use  this  bar  graph  to represent  such  as  example, we're  discussing  the  student  impact and  so  on  from  which university,  which  countries. So  we  need  to  see  the  distribution to  some  better  understanding. So  this  is  very  useful  way. Then  you  can  also  have  big  pictures  about, you  know  what  data  as I  early  on  based  on  the  CPD  definition. You  can  see  that  information  is  very  generar, but  it  can  be  more  concrete. You  can  see  like  in  the  medical, you  can  get  recalls, fats  in  the  newspaper, and  then  statistic  figures and  also  of  course, a  very  common  number. And  then  in  terms  of  the  value can  continue  describe  already  mision. And  then  Odiner,  and  this is  later  we  want  to  discuss  in  more  detail, categories  and  missing  data already  highlight  or  even  census  data. You  see,  some  of  the  data, you  need  to  you  need  to  see whether  it  doesn't contain  those  harmful  information. So  you'll  sensor  data  first. And  at  this  point, we  come  to  more  concrete  discussion on  the  data  types. So  this  is  more  like  going  to the  numerical  or  the  representation of  the  using  data. So  all  of  you  are familiar  from  the  function  point  of  view. If  you  are  talking  about  temperature. Nowadays,  as  you  know,  the  climate  change. We  are  more  conscious  about  temperatures. Temperature  of  course,  is a  function  of  time  like  now  evening  time, the  temperature  will  go  down a  little  bit  daytime. Afternoon  in  particular  will  be  quite  high. You  can  represent  it  by  continues and  a  temperature  except  if  you look  at  the  physical  one,  it  is  a  continuous. But  then  for  computers,  usually, we  are  not  directly processing  the  continuous  data. We  can  We  can  do  a  sampling. So  just  take  from  every  half  second, you  take  the  value,  so  so  become  valuable. Okay.  So  Disce  variable  in  terms  in mathematical  point  of  view is  this  is  very  important. You  can  see  you  can  map  into a  cult  a  see  of  accountable  numbers. It  can  be  infinity  large  like  integer, your  neighbor  can  start  from  012  also, there's  always  get  in between  discretes  not  continue, but  it  can  go  to infinity  or  just  a  finite  range. On  the  other  d,  continue  insane, you  can  see  this  is  dens. Whatever  two  value,  you  can  always get  another  value  in  between. The  range  may  be  finite,  can  be  zero  to  one. You  have  infinite  number  within  this  range. It's  not  countable.  You  cannot call  this  number  ts. This  is  very  broad  definition and  coming  into  the  more  concrete  data  type. We  can  have  ordinal  data. Odin  mean  this  data  type, try  to  try  to  represent certain  ordering about  say  gook or  better  or  fair  and  so  on, for  example,  you  are  doing  doing  the  survey. You  go  to  a  room. There  always  some  display ask  you  to  give  you  a  your  feedback. This  is  what  we  call the  levels  of  satis  factories  and  so  on. You're  saying  this  is  ordinal  data. I  mean  it's  order. You  can  do  some  kind  of  rankings. As  you  can  see,  Excellent  here  is  the  best. Similarly  you're  doing  the  teaching  feedback. You  can  have  f  for  steer  goo  and  so  on. Come  this  is  the  type  you  can see  Then  another  related  one  is, but  it's  different  is  you'll have  the  category  data, which  also try  to  represent  different  category. But  in  this  case,  they  are not  They  are  not  d.  They  are just  telling  you  which one  belong  to  which  category. For  example,  you  have  different  colors, red  or  yellow  and  so  you  can't say  which  color  is  better  than  the  other. Similarly,  like  blood  type, you  have  A  B,  AB,  and  O. These  are  just  tell you  the  category  difference. These  are  not  ordered  in  these  things. Just  try  to  tell  you  this. You  can  even  the  hierarchy  to represent  your  data  from  broadly, you  can  divide  into  qualitatively, qualitative,  which  is  what I'm  mentioning  is  category, which  just  give  you the  general  representation of  different  category. On  the  other  d,  you  can  go into  more  quantitatively. One.  In  this  case, it  will  be  continued. It  could  be  discrete  also. This  discrete  data  type  is  shared  by both  the  category  also need  to  be  to  be  discrete. You  cannot  have  infinity  many  classes, which  doesn't  make  sense. But  on  that  quantitatively, you  can  continue  pamps  and  so  on, but  you  can  also  sample. A  discrete  time  also. Then  of  that  for  continues, we  can  subdivide  into  two  types  of  data. One  is  interval,  and  the  other  is  ratio. I'll  go  into  more  detail for  this  to  try  to  Basically, you  can  see  the  main  difference is  whether  you  had  the  natural  os  or  not  so that  you  can  you  can see  to  see  the  difference  between  the  two. The  other  two  type  nominal I  already  mentioned  is  the  same as  you're  using  it  for  category  and  ordinal. The  one  similar  to  category,  but  you  orders. To  tell  the  difference  small,  medium,  large. Then  you  can  also  have finally  data  or  no  binary  data. Finally  data  of  you  know  it  is only  two  value,  zero  or  one. The  more  genul,  you  can  have say  more  than  two, which  is  012  for  three  and  so  on. That's  no  finally. Yeah. Data  type,  as  I  say, we  can  have  nominal  data, which  already  explained  early, try  to  represent  the  different  category. These  are  not  explicit  ranking  or  orders. So  just  to  represent the  categories  in  general. The  next  one  is  ordinal  data, which  also  discrete, but  you  can  have  some  kind  of explicit  order  such  as  small, medium,  large  or  undergraduate  post  graduate. You  can  also  do  the  subdivision, for  example,  post  graduate, you  all  know  you  can  have  different  labor from  MSC  to  MG,  then  PSD. Sometimes  you  can  also  consider  post But  depends  on  how  you  classify. So  that's  what  they  call  ordinal  data. Data  we  have  interval  and  ratio  data. These  two  have  some  neumatical  value. You  have  some  is. But  this  one,  the  main  difference between  these  two  is whether  you  have  natural or  we  call  it  absolute  zero  point. Include  into  this.  For  example, if  you  are  talking about  height  or  weight  and  so  on. This  kind  of  data,  you  can use  zero  as  reference  point. Because  there  will  be  height. There  will  be  you'll  never  have  zero  height. There  must  be  a  certain  values, 1  meter,  2  meters,  and  so  on. We  call  it  have  zero  pot  references a  ratio  data,  you  can  compare. On  the  other  and,  you  can  have  interval  data, which  you  will  not  have the  so  called  zero  points  such  as temperature  and  So  I've got  temperature  unless  you  go  to, you  know,  to  o  state, then  you  have  absolute  zero  point. The  one  we  are  talking  about like  30  degree  or  35  degrees. So  you  can  this  is  not  a  ratio  data you  cannot  compare  this  to  bio ratio  Now  we  go into  a  little  bit  more  detail about  nominal  data. I  think  you  normally  already  know this  from  daily  life  examples because  this  This  data, there  is  no  intrinsic  order, such  as  gender,  male  or  female. You  can  now  say  highlight  the  equalities. So  both  equal. Cannot  say  which  one  is  better and  then  is  also  in  Singapore, in  particular, all  the  different  phases,  equals. There's  no  discrimination  and  blood  time, no  places  you  know, we  call  this  nominal.  Data. But  in  some  specific  case  is  very  seldom. Like,  for  example,  color, if  you  are  looking  just looking  at  the  color  Excel, then  there's  no  no  intrinsic  order in  the  sins  of  your  green  red  also. But  if  we  all  try  to link  this  into  physically, how  color  comes  from the  underlying  electromagnetic  wave  lengths, the  re  color  be  co  into  that  one, then  in  that  sins  you  can  measure, you  can  consider  you  can order  them  if  you  are  using  that. But  this  is  very  low. Normally  we  will  not  go into  this  subtle  difference. In  general,  we'll  consider  nominal  data. Is  not  for  linking  or  ordering. Yeah.  Then  in  this  case, how  are  we  going  to  represent  this  data? If  you  are  you  need  to  do some  processing  to  use  a  computer coding  to  try  to  process  that sees  the  nominal  data except  it  doesn't  come  with  order, but  in  order  to  process  it, typically  in  the  old  way, you  may  just  use  one,  two,  three, four  to  represent  different  category. But  this  may  somehow  in  the  processing, you  may  give  four, for  example,  it  is  a  larger  value. There  may  be  a  misleading  thinking this  is  more  important. That's  why  another  way  to  do is  you  avoid  directly  giving this  value  to  for the  category  where  you don't  need  the  ordering. For  example,  you  are  processing different  type  of  fruits, apple  or  links  and  so  on. If  you  try  to  not  do  that, then  you  can  use  another  so  called one  hot  coating  where  you  only  0101, but  you  put  each  category  into  like  a  vector where  that  one  only given  to  denote  for  the  particular  class. You  are  using  the  one, the  position  to  call  this. That's  what  they  call  one  cat. Coding.  Yeah. That's  actually  explained  in this  numerical  conversion  data  in  codings. Yeah. So  that  is  one  way. When  you  read  papers  or doing  the  processing  this  one  hot  coding, is  very  useful  way  to  denote this  using  numerical  to com  from  nominal  data. Next,  we  come  to  ordinal  data. This  data,  they  already  have some  kind  of  ordering,  so  it's  easier. You  just  based  on  the  order, you  can  do  the  proper  problem  mappings, such  as  in  patient  queue  management  system. You  need  to  give the  priority  to  see  who  come  first, then  order  according  to  the  coming  times, or  the  appointment  time  and  so  on. On  that  day,  you  can  also based  on  who,  you  know, the  patient  who  is  more  severe, then  you  can  give  a  higher  priority. So  these  are  the  din  data  type, you  can  do  this.  Or  Yeah. Sometimes  you  can  also  measure depending  on  the  frequency  or  occurrence. For  those  are  happening,  very  often, you  can  give  more  emphasis. Yeah. Then  for  ad  data, you  can  also  use mean  median  and  more  values to  as  a  measures  to  bring  this  data. But  however,  usually,  you  have to  more  careful  to  take the  mean  value  because  if  you  take  the  mo or  medians  ok  A  shield  you  will  have integer  value  to  represent this  ordinal  data  one, two,  three,  four,  five, you'll  take  the  mean  value which  may  not  be  integer. Somehow  not  you  may  call  some  problem. This  is  something  you need  to  take  care  of  this. Then  you  to  do  this  ranking. We  can  also  do the  normalization  at  the  same  time  because the  given  number  may  be  over very  large  rank  and range  and  the  value  may  become  very  large, which  may  not  be  very  convenient. What  normally  we  can  stanze  into  for  example, for  all  those  positive  value, you  can  do  this  range  0-1, one  way  to  do  this  is. One  way  to  do  the  normalization. In  this  case,  you  can  see  R  is the  largest  largest  number. So  one  define  in  this  way, we  will  certainly  converge all  the  small  r  from  one  to  R. Capital  R  is  all  within  this  range. That's  one  way  to  do  it. Then  you  can  also  compare the  similarities  or  the  similarities between  the  two  rings. There  are  several  ways  to  do, which  is  the  distance  measure. We  will  discuss  the later  also  such  as  humming  distance, distance,  and  so  on. You  you  can  also use  that's  this  is  one  example. If  you  have  three  data  point to  represent  a  vector. Then  you  want  to  see  how  these  two  vector. What  What  is  the  distance  between  these  two. One  way  you  can  define  is  just  take the  difference  of  the  corresponding  value and  then  raise  power  of  two. You  divide  square  loot, you'll  become  the  true distance  that  we  define, but  sometimes  you  take  square  loo, you  get  the  eation  number, which  may  not  be  good, so  you  don't  apply  the  square  lo, it's  a  dist  power  of  two,  this. Measure,  and  then  you  can  also measure  the  *******  distance.  Also. This  is  typically  you just  measure  whether  there  is  a  different. You  you  don't  care  how  much different  you  just  compare whether  this  two  element  is  different,  one, if  no  different  o, and  then  your  co, how  many  elements  vector  have  some  distance. And  be  distance,  you will  also  call  a  maximum  value  distance. That's  another  way  to  measure  it. Then  is  coming  into  more  detail  about the  difference  between interval  and  ratio  data. I  think  it's  the  most  easy  to explain  by  as  I  already  mentioned, the  key  point  is  whether  this  is a  o  point  includes  or  not. One  example  is  this  temperature  degree if  you  measure  in  celsius. In  this  case,  you  can  only  consider  that as  interval  build  because  in  this  case, zero  degree  It  does  not corresponding  to  no  temperature  you  see  here. Jo  is  just  somewhere  in  the  middle  point. Therefore,  we  cannot  say six  degrees  celsius  twice  as hot  as  30  degree  celsius. This  in  this  case, Z  is  not the  absolute  zero  point  as  a  reference. So  therefore,  you  have  to  be  careful. However,  if  you  are  using  v  scale  which  is only  used  in  the  si  scientific  daily  life, we  don't  use  this. Then  you  will  see  there is  absolute  zero  point. Whatever  temperature  using  this  alving  scale, can  only  be  posted  from zero  is  the  lowest  then  all  the  way  go  up. That's  how  we  call  this  is  one is  interval  data  where the  other  is  ratio  ratio  data. I  think  most  of  the  example we  see  in  daily  life, there  will  be  like  the  ratio  data  such  as we  age  and  so  on, you  can  have  absolute  zero  and whatever  KG  of  40  KG  is  twice  or  20  G. You  can  have  a  reference  point  to measure  I  think  we can  go  into  one  more  topic before  we  take  the  break. The  next  thing  to  consider will  be  the  distance  matrix. This  is  also  very important  because  in  machine  learning, very  often  in  particular, if  you  are  going  into  used  learning. There  you  don't  supervise  data. You  don't  have  ground  choose. What  clustering, typically,  you  do  clustering  is you'll  be  trying  to measure  among  the  given  feature  or given  data  to  see how  they  are  close  to  each  other. That's  why  the  metric. A  distance  function  here  is  very  important to  define  the  distance between  each  pair  of  elements  of  the  set. Okay. So  mathematically,  we  can  make  consider this  distant  mapping  function written  in  this  way. So  you're  comparing  these  two  set or  element  from  these  two  sets. And  then  you'll  try  to  map into  the  positive  y  value  set, which  of  course,  distance must  be  most  zero  or  positive. We  don't  define  a  negative  distance. It  will  be  from  zo  at  the  same  place. There's  no  difference  at the  same  location,  o  distance. All  the  way  it  can  be  up  to  infinitely  large, as  far  as  you  can  think  about. Then  to  define  this  distance  metric. They  need  to  satisfy  certain  conditions. For  example,  the  first one  is  a  null  negative, this  is  what  I  just  mentioned. Distance  must  be  greater or  at  least  equal  to  zero. This  is  the  first  one. Second  one  is  identity of  in  nmo  which means  if  you  are  in  the  same  location, x  equal  to  y, then  the  distance  must  be. You  are  at  the  same  place. An  also  symmetry,  x  and  y. The  distance  should  be  the  same  as  y  and  x. Finally,  this  triangle  inequality. I  think  we  all  know  this  in  I will  study  this  geometries. You  have  the  distance  from  x  and  j  must  be smaller  or  most  equal  to the  sum  from  x  to  y  and  then  y  to. This  is  very  famous. Trig  triangle  in  equality. I  think  you'll  know  learned  this  before. So  the  distance  between  x  and  y.  X  and, I  will  start  from  x  to  another  point  y, and  that  will  go  from  y  to  z. These  22  distances. Some  together  must  be a  most  equal  or  smaller  than  that. If  it  doesn't  satisfy  this, then  this  is  not  our  proper  definition  of the  distance  functions  or  or  the  metric. And  there  are  several  definitions because  there's a  function  to  measure  distance. We  can  based  on  this  condition, the  four  condition,  you  can  come up  with  several  different  ways. We  give  common  one  here. One  is  humming  distance. This  distance  is  just to  measure  this  it will  just  called  how  many  elements. There's  a  difference,  we  call  it  one, or  no  difference  in each  of  the  element,  for  example, three  D,  three  elements, and  we  don't  care  how  big  is the  It  will  be  the  difference. We're  just  looking  at whether  the  distance  difference  or  not. This  is  one  way  to  measure. The  cd  matrix,  which  we  all  know  is just  measure  that  measure  how  much  different, how  long  is  the  distance. This  is,  we  call  it  typically  two  norms, two  d.  Then  you  can  have  a  tax  metric, which  is  called  one  norm or  L  one  norm  distance. All  these  one  or  two  nom, you  can  generalize  into  this more  using  one  function  to  to one  distance  to  describe  which  we  call  it mean  ski  distance  or  the  p  norm  magic. This  is  very  important  because  in the  subsequent  discussion,  I  proto, we  will  go  into  more  detail  about this  p  p  norm  distance, as  you  can  see  here,  if  P  e  to  two, you  will  go  back  to  this  22  norm  distance. I  P  go  one, you  will  go  to  this  one  nom. P  can  take  other  positive  value. As  I  say,  more  discussion  will  be  here. But  you  have  to  be  careful. This  means  co  ski  distance, equ  will  be  a  matrix  which follow  our  requirement  here, only  for  p  greater  or  equal  to  one. Since  only  in  this  case, you  will  satisfy  all  the  four  conditions  ion. However,  I  P  you  see  we  can  define  P, but  this  small  P  is  smaller  than  one. Then  in  this  case,  Mosk  distance  here, not  the  matrix  for P  is  smaller  than  one  because  it doesn't  satisfy  the  triangle  inequality. Need  to  technology  of  this. And  these  are  some  of  of the  graph  to  represent  for  different  p  value. You  can  see  here  smaller  than  one, I  think  this  one  b  to see  we  look  at  this  0.5. You  see  here,  this  is  not the  concave  region,  you  see. Inside  this,  starting  from one,  you  can  see  here. An  two  point,  you  can  see  satisfy the  triangular  inequality,  but  not  here. I  think  if  you  look  at  some  past  exam  papers, there  will  be  some  questions related  to  this  in  the  past. Okay.  Yeah,  I  maybe we  can  take  take  a  short  break, then  we  can  finish this  data  pre  processing  method, and  then  well  sometimes  we  go  through  some  of the  supplemental  material  for the  maths  which  you  will need  for  the  subsequent  lectures. So  T  We  take  a  15  minutes  break. Now  it's  735. You  can  look  at  the  clock  there. So  we  come  back  at  7:50. See  you  see  you  later. Let  me  just  check  again, the  student  Let  me  see. Can  I  student  called  Ada,  Bt,  Abdura? One  person,  a  long  name. Faster  student. Suppose  the  tendon. Are  you  the  one.  Go. Are  you?  Okay.  Do  you know  have  you  attend  other  classes? Maybe  I  ask  other  students. I  also  Good. C  Thank  you. Okay.  I  think  we  can  continue  from the  parts  before  we  pack  took  the  break. So  next,  talk  about some  processing  methods  which we  to  handle  theta. So that's Then  as I  say  early  because  in  channel, you  see  we  handling given  data  input  data  in  different  forms, like  nominal  categories  or  so on  Adina  with  all  the  different  data  types, how  are  we  going to  process  this  data  to  do  the  pre  processing before  we  pass  into the  machine  learning  models  to  do further  learnings  and  classification, regression  and  so  on. In  the  case  of  BOR  having  multiple  device, or  you  can  collect  in  different  times, then  you  can  also  get multiple  data  set  or  multiple  data  sources. In  the  sense  of  you  can have  very  diverse,  the A  large  volume  of  data  and  it  can  have, even  a  large  spatial  dimensions, and  it  could  be  over  the  time  also. So  we  have  to  make  sure  we  want  to achieve  consistency in  the  data  representation. Therefore,  we  need  some  kind  of data  pre  processing  methods to  try  to  improve  the  qualities  of  the  data. One  obvious  way  to  do, which  is  also  very important  is  to  do  the  data  cleaning. Sometimes,  also  call  it  data  cleaning. That's  how  to  do  it  or  why  do  we  need to  do  it  because  when  you  get  the  data. Some  of  the  data  may  be  maybe  corrupted. Is  it  not  in  good  quality,  very  noisy, or  it  could  be  incomplete and  some  even  a  mistake in  accurate  data  sample from  certain  correction  and  so  on. Therefore,  to  do  it  is  we  have to  ensure  completely  nes. This  is  the  first  requirements  to make  sure  you  also  may  have  missing  data. We  have  to  make  sure  the  data  you  are  passing to  the  next  learning  model should  be  complete. And  it's  incomplete,  then  we  need  to  remove some  of  them  or  to  ad  in the  missing  data  value  by  some  other  means. That's  the  first  one. Another  one  is  consistency. This  is  also  very important  because  when  you  measure  data, sometimes  one  different  day, it  could  be  some  giving a  very  small  value  day, the  value  could  be  very  large, but  they  de  to the  different  measurement  device. It  doesn't  mean  those  are  much  higher  value, much  more  important. You  need  to  be  consistencies. Yeah.  For  stationary  data, you  are  thinking  the  data should  change  over  time, or  at  least  the  trends. You  also  need  to  ensure  there's  no  tread. Treat  me,  you  see  the  DC  value  or the  mean  value  will  keep going  up  or  down  in  certain. Yeah.  In  the  case  of  no  stationary  data, which  happened  in  some  education, you  cannot  remove  the  treat, but  you  need  to  model  it  properly. That's  also  very  important. Another  thing  to  do  is  in this  data  cleaning  process, you  have  to  ensure  uniform  uniformity. That's  for  example,  you  are  using the  same  scale  and  the  same  representations. No  say  like  one  day  you  use  kilogram, then  another  day  you  use  pounds  because  they will  give  you  superficially  different  value, but  they  may  be the  same  after  you  do  the  conversion. You  need  to  make  sure  will  be  uniform. Need  to  be  consistent  and  so  on. And  another  important  one is  a  valid  dT,  you  see. Whatever  measurement  you'll  get. You  have  to  make  sure  you  satisfy established  constraints,  and  so  on. For  example,  you  are  talking  about  percents, then  you  have  to  make  sure that  total  sum  of those  major  data  should  be  equal  to  100%. To  make  it  valid. That  this  is  a  very  interesting  example, even  among  the  faculty  professor, I  two  weeks  ago, we  have  the  faculty, professor  performance  evaluation. Then  in  the  meeting, showed  say  your  performance based  on  40%  of  res, 40%  of  teaching,  20%  of  service. So  by  this  percent  d  or  ta  is  100%. But  it  turns  out  to  be  the  error  that  40, 50,  and  20,  and  we'll  raise  a  question. This  is  not  a  v  measure  should  be. You  use  100%,  then you  make  sure  the  different  part. At  must  be  100%. That's  a  very  simple  but  very  good  example to  show  how  do  you  ensure  valid. Then  the  alignment  like  in  image  processing, then  you  need  to  make  sure  you  will  be  align the  foreground  and  background properly  such  you  are  doing  the  phase  image. Recognition  and  so  on. You  need  to  make sure  that  you're  talking about  the  same  thing. Otherwise,  it  may  give some  mistake  to  this not  not  doing  the  alignments  properly. That's  another  important  consideration. Otherwise,  your  comparison  may  be  wrong, you  do  not  do  the  alignments  properly. And  normalization. This  is  also  very important  because  you  measure  the  data. I  may  come  from  very  large  different  ranges. But  typically, if  you  are  building  machine  learning  model, it  will  be  easier,  input  data, follow  within  certain  normalized  range. For  example,  it  can  be  zero  to  one  or minus  one  to  one  and  so  on.  How  to  do  that. There  are  two  ways  to  do  depending on  the  row  measurement. IO.  In  this  sale  of  meta  data, you  can  clearly  define  the  minimum  maximum, then  you  can  use  this  as the  denominator  because  all  the  other  value must  fall  within  this  range. Therefore,  this  is  similar to  what  we  discussed  earlier, talking  about  the  integer  value from  one  to  cap. Here,  it  can  be  the  raw  major  data, can  be  lower  numbers, not  necessarily  integer,  but  you're  doing the  same  way  you  divide  into  this  range. Then  after  that,  whatever  come the  raw  data  within  this  range,  you  pug  in, then  you  will  get  the  normalized  value between  say  zero  to  one,  satisfy  this. This  is  very  typical,  one  way  to  do. But  on  the  other  end, sometimes  your  major  data, you  may  not  really know  what's  the  minimum  and  the  maximum. For  example,  if  you  are  looking  at the  gaussian  random  value  distribution, the  minimum  maximum  value  can  go  to  infinite. Doesn't  make  sense  about using  the  minimum  and  maximum. Also,  in  the  major  data, you  what  do  you measure  may  be  falling  this  range, but  this  is  not  representative  because  you never  know  the  next  value, you  want  to  test  outside  this  range. How  to  handle  the  problem. Another  way  if  you  are  learning from  the  statistic  probabilities. You  know,  you  can always  get  expectation  value  or  mean  value. And  then  after  that,  you  can  get Or  if  you  have  the  B  is usually  defined  by  Sigma  power  two. You  can  standze  by  removing the  power  to  stand  deviation. This  is  another  way  to  do. So  that  means  you  take  the  mean  value  and take  sample  your  variant  if  you  know  that, you  know  the  distribution,  you  can  do  it, but  if  not,  you  can base  on  if  your  major  data. The  training  data  is  finite. What  you  do,  you  can  get  the  sample  means  and the  sample  sample  valian  this  way. That's  also  another  sta  the  way  to  do. Once  you  get  this  two  value, you  can  plug  into  this  formula  and get  whatever  new  data or  the  raw  data  coming  in. You  can  do  it  here  like  this. Then  there  is  another  other  way  to  do. You  can  have  the  median  absolute PV  what's  mean  here? I  guess  you  know  how  to get  this  medium  value. Medium  value  is  just  for  example, we  talk  about  average  and  medium  value. These  two  related,  but  not  the  same. Sometimes  we  tend  to  feel medium  value  is  more  make  more  sense. For  example,  you'll  talk  about  the  you'll  see a  group  about  probably  100  people. Each  person  and  those  are  working. Maybe  for  students,  you  may  know  a  salary. So  say  a  s  salary  of these  working  adults  so  you have  avery  you  have each  person  at  the  salary. Oe  you'll  know  a  person  one  to  up  to  100. So  One  way  to  do  is  you  take the  salary  of  all  the  each  of  these  100%, then  take  the  mean  salary. So  So  then  divide  by  say  100,  you  get  this. But  this  is  not  good  because one  person  may  be earning  like 1  million  or  billion  billion  mask. Then  you  may  get  the  wrong  impression  of the  average  salary  is  very high  because  you  have  one  outlier. The  median  is  more  sensible. You  just  take  sally  100%, those  are  in  the  50  or  51, you're  counting  whatever  the  lowest, then  all  the  way  up  to  the  maximum. Like  the  middle  point,  then it  is  more  representative, the  one  in  the  middle. That's  how  you  get  this  medium  value. Then  the  ones  you'll  get this  medium  out  of  this  set. Then  whatever  other  value, you  take  the  difference. Then  you'll  take  the  absolute  value. We  don't  care  the  person  in  the  middle, you  earn  say  five  K. Then  if  those  are  earning  four  k, one  k  less,  or  those  are  six  k,  one  k  more. We  are  measuring  how  much different  from  the  middle,  the  median  value. That's  why  we  call  it median  absolute  deviation. How  much  de  viation. This  is  in  a  sense  similar  to what  we  mentioned  earlier in  this  so  called  I  think  this  is  S  score, sometimes  you  call  score  stang. Yeah.  Yeah.  Once  you  get  this  value, you  can  do  using this  to  do  the  normalization. Then  you'll  replace  this  by  the  mean. Man  is  if  you  know  the  population  is  a way  distribute  those  values like  Gaussian,  then  it's  okay. But  if  you  have  the  data  is  some  outlier, very  far  away,  and  it's  better  to  use  this. In  image  processing  this  median  filter is  very  useful  popular  one. Then  they  could  also be  a  the  transformations. You  can  always  transform  data from  one  type  or  one  range  into the  other  depending  on  what's your  requirements  or  in  the  application  area. So  there  are  several  ways  to  do  it. One  typical  way  if the  data  all  positive or  at  least  not  negative, then  you  can  apply  this  lock  function. So,  remember,  packing  lot  can  only applicable  to  those  no  negative  value because  mathematically, you  You  cannot  apply the  log  into  a  negative  value. I'll  give  you  the  long  result. But  using  log  is  good  because  sometimes  if the  value  the  range  is  too  large, you  say  you'll  try  to  represent  1-1  million. If  you  plot  the  rob, you  will  need  a  very  huge  rn. But  by  taking  log,  you will  bring  down  this  range. This  is  one  way  to  come  the  range  of  of  data. On  the  other,  if  the  data are  very  close  to  each  other, then  you  can  stretch  it by  reverse  using  the  exponential  function. Like  some  value,  they  are  very  close. If  you  approach,  you  may become  a  horizontal  line. Then  you  can  using  exponential, that  will  see  the  difference. And  other  no  linear  stretching  function, which  is  very  useful in  neural  networks  such  as sikmoi  function  or hyperbolic  tangent  function. These  are  the  one  typically  yields  here. These  are  just  some  examples to  do  the  normalization. Then,  you  have  to  take  care  about the  normalization  and  data  preprocessing for  this  training  and  validation  test. So,  you  are  doing  that  or  trying  to  do the  global  pre  processing  is  you're calculating  the  global  means and  alli  for  this  normalization. You  need  to  do  cross the  entire  data  set  before you  splitting  into  this  sub  one. You  you  to  this, you  may  to  the  data  leakage, or  sometimes  you  can  also from  the  training  data  go  into  the  test  data, which  is  not  the  correct  way. That's  why  you  have  to  be  careful. Typically,  you  have  to  be  fair  by separate  the  training  and  test  test  data. First,  before  you  apply this  so  called  getting the  means  and  and  billion. Otherwise,  you  may  use  some  of the  information  from  the  training  data into  the  test  data  set. Therefore,  this  normalization  parameter must  be  completed  only for  the  training  data  set. Not  to  Yeah. To  be  careful  when  doing  this. To  summarize  this  data  pre  processing. We  can  briefly  cover  this  several  topic  here. One  is  data,  what  data  collection of  or  continuous  values that  convey  some  information. The  information  could  be The  useful  could  be wrong,  could  be  misleading. But  hopefully  for  us, of  course,  we  hope the  information  is  the  useful  one. Then  in  order  to  understand  data, we  are  dealing  with,  we  need to  understand  the  different  data  types. Here,  there  are  several  ways  to  define, but  here  we  can  talk  about  nominal  data. This  is  one  type.  This  is  more  for the  categories  or  qualitative  t. I  represent  different  category. There  is  no  ordering. Furthermore,  you  can  have  ordinal  data. In  this  case,  you  have an  express  orders  such  as a  good  xn  pool  or  a  bridge. But  the  exact  differences  between these  rings  are  usually  usually  unknown, you  cannot  say  the  difference between  excellent  and  say  goo. I  may  not  be  equal  to  goo  to  average. You  have  to  be  careful. We  have  some  ordering,  measure  them, but  they  are  not  neumaical  ways of  handling  that. And  the  neumic  Data  type will  have  interval  and  ratio. This  the  proper  representation, using  numerical  value,  number,  and  so  on. Again,  these  two  differ by  whether  you  can  define an  absolute  zero  value so  that  you  can  measure  the  ratio,  if  not. We  call  that  interval  data. Then  it's  very  important  to compare  data  arg  vectors  or  image. We  define  the  distant  distance  matrix  matrix. Typical  one  is  L  one  norm,  L  two  norm. This  two,  you  can  generalize into  the  LP  norm  and  so  on. For  data  normalization,  you can  have  the  typical  one  is  a  minim  scaling. I  can  be  sure  all  the  data  set, you  can  have  a  minimum,  maximum  value, or  if  not,  you  only know  certain  distribution, you  can  use  the  co  standardization  to  do  it. So  I  think  this  is  the  preprocessing  part because  we  still  have  time. So  typically  Any  questions? Okay.  Yeah,  I  think  I will  make  good  use  of  the  remaining  time to  give  mathematical  review  of  some  of  the, the  background  fundamentals  which will  be  used  in  this  course. It  may  be  useful  for  other  courses  you  are going  to  take  because in  our  MSC  program  here, EE,  We  don't  have foundation  call  like  mathematical for  machine  learning  or for  AI  for  engineering. Actually  each  course  they  will introduce  some  math  you  know, background,  like  my  other  courses. I  had  linear  algebra  and  so  on. In  this  course,  this  is mainly  prepare  for  the  P  one. I  think  P  two  math  requirement may  be  a  little  bit  lower, so  Anyway,  Part  two, Part  one  are  more  or  less  separate, we  design  using  different  ways. Yeah.  You  can  also  see  from last  week  introduction  this  the  two  sub  area. We  just  thinking  there  will  be sw  combined  one  call. The  topic  to  be  covered  in this  background  will  be linear  algebraic  to  star  was. These  are  always  use for  not  just  here,  in  other  causes. Then  later  you'll  see  we  need to  solve  system  or  linear  equation. Then  we  need  to  learn a  little  bit  about  function. You  see  at  the  beginning. This  early  part,  I  mentioned very  broad  mapping,  input  output  data. This  defined  by  function. Can  you  have  other  type  of  functions, derivative,  gradients,  or  this. Finally,  constraints  optimization  is also  very  important  in  machine  learning, so  we  need  to  cover  this  briefly. Some  of  the  background  here, I  think  for  some  of  you  may  be  very familiar  with  not  so  media  with  other  topics. I  think  but  try  to  make  it  in  such  a  way where  this  background  will be  will  be  in  the  subsequent. For  those  who  already  know  it's  okay, you  can  keep  this  part  for  those who  are  relatively  new  or  not  so  media. You  can  refer  to  the  supplementals  which this  fires  already  available  at  NT  length. Star  is  linear  b. Then  we  have  some  notations for  vectors  and  matrix. Star  is  a  very  simple  one,  scalar, which  I  think  you  all  know  is a  simple  numerical  value like  60  A  or  -3.13,  these  are  constant. And  then  after  that, you  can  have  valuable  constant ta  scalar  values. Then  we  can  not  by  italic  letter, such  as  X  or  A,  or  so  on. In  this  case,  we  are  focusing on  layer  numbers. We  don't  set  B  is  complex  number. That's  Then  there  are some  symbols  which  may  be  used  for. I  think  as  I  say, most  of  you  should  already  be  familiar. Summations,  we  are  using  this  to  simplify  to making  more  complex  if  you're  summing up  Mm  data  sample, can  put  it  referring  to  the  index. The  only  difference  is  in  the  index  I, I  from  one  to,  can  do  it  together. Similarly  for  product  over collections  then  will  use  this  symbol. So  the  tool  Now  come  into  vectors. Vectors.  We  also  use  small  character, but  we  use  both  phase, both  phase  of  x  or  W.  Then  typically, we  use  column  i  to  def  this  column  vector. This  is  two  dimension. W  equal  to  this  x  equal  to  this, both  ways,  y  equal  to  this. Then  you  can  also  representative, of  course,  only  for  the  lower  dimension, two  dimension,  in  a  plane  three  dimension, you  can  represent  using  three  D  plane. In  this  case,  there are  two  ways  to  represent  vector. You  can  show  this  directly  by giving  the  x  and  y  coordinator  like  this  is For  example  is  two  and  three,  right  here. This  is  two,  this  is  three. This  is  a  longer  one,  for  this  blue  so, this  is  a  shorter  one. Or  you  can  also  just use  the  four  like  the  ending  point. It's  the  same  depending  on  the  convener. Then  among  the  vectors, you  have  elements  in  the  vector. Typically,  you  can  use  the  index  to  be no  specific  dimension  of  the  vectors. This  is  what  you  will  be  doing. If  you  have  two  A, A  one  equal  to  two, A  two  equal  to  three  in  this. Now  you  can  extend  vector  into  matrix. Matrix  graphically,  you  can  view  it  as a  rectangular  arrays  of  number  where vector  is  just  usually called  the  vector  or  row  vector, you  rotate,  you  have  become  row  vector. For  matrix,  we  use both  and  capital  laters here  to  differentiate  from  vector. This  is  x  is  two  by  three, and  then  you  can  have  x, you  can  have  W  and  so  on. In  this  case,  because  you have  column  and  rows, we  need  to  use  two  index, either  this  or,  or  you can  even  have  one  more  one  more  index. For  example,  in  neural  network, you  can  have,  you  know, a  different  layer,  so  you  can define  one  more  index. Yeah.  That's  how  you  try to  make  it  easy  to understand  and  at  the  same  time, not  too  complicated. So  this  is  a  compromise. Just  follow  some  conventions. Examples  here  in  the  data  set. For  example,  in  the  IRs  data  set  about those  patters  and  sepas  and  so  on. We  can  represent  like remember  we  talk  about  future  vectors  here. So  in  this  case, if  we  are  looking  at  say  our  our  features, we  have  four  different  features. You'll  use  this  dimension  go  to  four. And  then  you  may  have  many  different  samples. This  150  here,  you  will  refer  to  the  number of  samples  in  your  data  set. Then  also  we  have many  different  feature  vector  feature, the  number  may  be  large, but  This  can  be  group  into  how  many  classes. In  this  case,  we only  have  three  different  types. This  is  what  we  have  the  y  here. It  can  be  setosa  and  Vs  color  and  virginica. All  these  three  different  one. Each  of  these  input  will  belong to  belong  to  one  of  these, so  you  can  use  to labors  to  represent  the  output. For  this.  It's  very important  to  know  how  to  do the  operations  for  vectors, metrics,  and  so  on. They  are  similar  to  number, but  more  complicated  particularly  for  matrix. I  think  the  vector  is  somewhat  easier  and particularly  if  you  are  doing just  summation  or  subjection, then  you  will  follow follow  by  doing  it  element  y, such  as  x  plus  y, sum  the  first  element and  similarly  second  element, become  a  new  vector. You  do  the  subjection, you  do  it  similarly. You  vector,  you  can multiply  or  divide  by  multiply, can  be  multiplied  by  a  o  scaler. Division,  we  follow  the  same  lows. We  cannot  divide  by  zo, but  otherwise  it  will  be similar  in  wise  operation. When  you  come  to  matrix, you  need  to  take  more  care. First,  we  have  this  matrix  or  vector  transpo. This  symbol  capit  here, if  you  have  a  column  vector, you'll  do  the  transpo,  you'll become  a  row  vector. Similarly  for  matrix,  if  you  have a  two  by  three  matrix  up  the  transpo, will  become  a  three  by  two. That  mean  column  column become  rows  and  rows  become  columns. You  need  to  be  familiar  with  this  operation. Then  we  can  have  top  product  or  sometime, we  call  it  in  the  product. The  top  product  here,  you  see  this  simple. That  means  in  this  case,  you  can use  the  same  column  vector. But  make  sure  the  operation actually  you  have  to  rotate. The  first  one  to  do the  transport  into  column  into  row. And  then  you'll  do this  stand  matric  multiplication. Then  geometric  definition. This  will  mean  you measure  the  two  the  theta  vector  no  but multiplied  by  this  angle  depending  on how  what's  the  difference  angle between  these  22  vector. For  example,  if  the  theta  become  zero, so  this  two  vector, you  will  be  on  the  same  horizontal  line. Cosine  zero,  you  know  is  equal  to  one. You'll  get  the  maximum top  product  in  the  product. But  if  theta  is  90  degree,  So  what  do  we  get? Cosine  90  degree  equal  to  Jo. But  that  mean  his  two  vector  is  so  go. There  is  the  top  product  equal  to  Jo. This  is  one  very  important  measure. Then  to  do  the  matri  vector  product, you  follow  this  multiplication  rules. I  think  most  of you  should  already  be  familiar. But  it  turned  out  to  be  during the  quiz  or  during  the  final  exams. Some  students  may  have  problem. That's  why  we  prepare this  at  to  get  familiar. So  we  may  need some  simple  matric  vector  product  and  so  on. This  is  what  you  should  do  here. Magic  multiplied  by  product, you  will  be  doing  this  way. You  can  start  with  a  vector  first,  the  magic. But  in  this  case,  you  have  to  make  sure the  dimension  is  compatible. For  example,  you  cannot  multiply a  column  vector  in  the first  and  then  the  dimension you  will  not  match,  see. M  always  check  that the  dimension  must  be  compatible. Then  matri  matric  product. This  is  the  easy way  to  think  about  it  is  that you  can  consider  this  matrix, you  multiply  one  column  first, then  to  get  the  first  column. You'll  do  for  the  second  column. Once  you  know  how  to multiply  matric  with  a  vector, and  you  can  explain  this  into  matrix  product. It  looks  a  bit  more  complicated, but  is  not  to  not  too  difficult  to  do. If  you  are  familiar,  you'll  follow  the  rules. Now  to  come  into  matrix  inversion. This  is  a  little  bit more  challenge  unless  you are  doing  with  some  very simple  metric  diagonal  matrix, you  can  do  the  inversion easily  just  like  scaler, but  if  you  are  doing  it  for general  d  by  d  matrix, square  matrix  to  do  inversion  here we  def  square  and  no  singular Matrix.  The  rule  here  is the  inverse  and  given a  matric  A,  the  inverse, you  have  the  inverse,  must  be  full  rank, and  then  the  product  of this  two  will  become identity  matrix,  and  I  is  here. That's  how  the  definition. Once  you  have  the  inverse,  doesn't  matter, it  can  be  from  the  left or  from  the  right  is  the  same. You're  doing  in  this  way. But  how  to  do  the  inversion. This  is  a  big  challenge. Particularly  if  your  matric  dimension  is quite  high  and  it  may  take  a  long  step. Usually,  for  inversions, two  by  two  should  be  the  s  requirement. T  by  three  is  already a  big  challenge  you  need  to  do  a  lot  step. Also  the  example  here, we  give  example  up  to  three  by  three. So  let's  see  here, we  also  need  to  know  how  to  get the  determinants  of  square  matrix. And  then  I  will  take gate  gate  matrix  the  square  matrix, you  can  always  get  it and  maybe  go  through  some  example. Also  as  say,  you  can  follow the  lecture  notes,  supplemental  file  here. So  for  example,  two  by  two, as  I  say,  is  g,  the  determinant, you  are  just  this  lose  of  cross  diagonal, eight  multiple  by  B,  then  the  other, there  are  only  two  diagonal, one  here,  and  the  other  direction. This  one,  you'll  take  the  minus side,  so  it's  easy. Three  by  three  is  a  big  difficult  challenge. Typically,  you  use  the  chromo you  this  lose  to  expand. You  can  take  for  example, you  take  any,  usually, you  can  start  with  just  one  row, ABC,  three  by  three. To  get  a  determinant, you  take  the  first  one  A, and  then  you'll  cross  out the  corresponding  column  and row  because  A  fourth  row,  first  column. What  we  remain  here,  is  a  two  by  two, then  you  can  get  the  determinant  of  this  one. That's  how  you  re  deal. Similarly  for  the  second  one. The  only  thing  you'll  go  to  the first  one  positive,  next  one  is  negative, and  third  one  is  alternative, positive,  negative,  positive,  negative. That's  why  B,  you'll  get  the  minus  s  here. Now  the  day  again  B  here, you'll  cross  out  the  first  row  and  cross out  the  second  column  because  B  is at  the  first  row,  second  column. Then  what  lab  is  this  two  by  two. Then  you'll  get  into the  determinant  and  so  on. This  is  how  you  get  the  determinant. As  I  say,  maximum  up  to  three  by  three. H  higher  than  that  is  very  very  tedious, so  we  don't  expect  you  do  it  manually. And  then  now  to  get  the  inverse, we  need  to  get  the  co  factor  computation. Again,  three  by  three  matrix  as  an  example. Quite  similar  to  what we  did  we  did  early  for  the  determinant. The  first  one  is,  you see,  you  cross  out  this  two, you  get  this  and  Similarly, the  second  one  is  what  we  did  here. But  to  get  this  co  factors, you  need  to  run  through  all  these  see  because this  first  one  only  give  you the  first  row  in  this  new  matrix, then  you'll  do  for the  second  row  and  the  third  one. I  think  for  the  detail, you  can  refer  to  this  lecture  nodes  to  find out  We  can  look  at  some  example, which  is  easier  to  understand. Remember,  we  have  the  square  matric three  by  three  here,  the  value  here. Then  do  it  like  the  first  one  is, you  see  you  cross  out this  first  row  first  column  or  lab  4506. Two  by  two  and  everyone know  how  to  get  the  determinant,  get  this. Similarly,  one,  two  is  cross  out  this, and  then  cross  out  this.  B01,  and  this. So  you'll  repeat  this  21. T  one  is  you  cross  out the  second  row  and  first  column. We  leve  two,  three, 06,  but  you  need  to  have  a  minus  sign. The  size  is  always  alternative,  positive, negative,  positive, and  positive,  negative,  positive  PD. At  the  end,  you'll  get  this  cofactor  matrix. Why  we  need  this  because  this  is  what  you need  if  you  are  trying  to  get  the  inverse. I  think  there's  a  formula here  to  get  the  inverse. Do  you  let  me  see. Yes.  S  here,  the  A  minor, neither  get  a  determining  or  the  alg  gate. This  is  related  to  the  transfer  of the  co  factor  matri. That's  how  you  do  it. Another  topic  is  also very  important  is  We  see this  linear  dependents  and Similarly  once  you  know  how to  define  linear  dependents, then  you  can  get  linearly  independent. These  two  are  just  opposite. Either  dependent  or  if  not, will  be  linearly  independent. We  look  at  the  collection  of  this  vector. Mm  can  be  starting  just  11  vector. You  can  also  see  if  you  have  one  vector is  dependent  only  if this  vector  is  a  00  vector. How  to  look  at  the  collection of  this  in  total. You  try  to  cater, you  can  find  some  scalar  B  one  up  to  BM. As  long  as  they  are  not  all  zero, one  of  them  is  not  zero, the  sum  them  together  equal  to  zero. The  linearly  dependent. That  mean  one  is  a  least  one de  depends  on  the  line  combination of  the  of  the  other. This  is  how  eight  defined. Remember,  we're  looking  at layer  number,  not  complex  here. On  the  other  linear  independence, there  is  a  error. If  you  are  trying  to  sum  them into  Jo  then  the  only  Only  ways, of  course,  you  make  all  of  them equal  eo  that's  always  give  you  a  eo. But  other  than  selecting all  the  scale  equal  to  o, you  are  not  able  to  find  any  of them  to  be  no  zero and  satisfy  this  condition. You  can  see  here  if it's  not  linearly  dependent, then  it  will  be  linearly  independent. These  two  conditions  be either  one  or  the  other. That's  this  is  one  of the  very  important  concepts. I  think  later  as  I  say,  proto, we  will  discuss  elaborate  more into  the  subsequent  lectures. Geometrically,  we  can  look  into  whether  they are  dependent  or  not  by  looking  in  the  case of  two  b  two  by  two, which  is  easier  in  the  plan. This  is  obvious.  You  can  see  here. If  the  two  vector  in the  same  direction,  Then  of  course, you  can  get  this  condition satisfied  and  one  of  them, at  least  one  of the  coefficient  no  equal  to  zero, or  both  of  them  no  equal  to  zero. So  that's  dependent. But  if  they  are  not  dependent, I  mean,  we  want to  get  the  X  three  vector  here. You  can  do  the  nodulo  scaly. This  vector,  you  cannot  be  represented  by the  linear  combination  of the  X  one  and  X  two. Yeah,  that's  in  the  sense  that  if  you are  Thinking  about  you  have  a  2d2d  blank, n  x  two  in  the  same  two  d  blank. Then  X  three  is  no  in  this  plank, then  of  course,  two  vector, you  can  generally  a  plan, but  cannot  represent  another  vector, which  is  another  dimension. That's  how  this  is  very  important. The  concept.  Then  the  next  topic  is  we  need some  very  basic  definition of  set  and  functions. So  set  in  math, can  be  considered  as  an  order  collection  of unique  elements  and  Then  typically, we  use  car  graphic  characters  to represent  you  can  have  is for  number  is  integers  C, is  usually  complex  number, see  or  complex  number. But  remember  here, we  seldom  deal  with  a  complex  number, we  be  either  real  or  integer. Then  we  talk  about  sale  of  numbers. It  can  be  59. Just  remember  you  only finite  amount  of  the  value. In  this  case  one,  three,  15  18,  23, and  so  I  a  symbol, can  be  x  one, x  up  to  x  d, d  is  a  finite  value. O  on  the  other  end  can  be  infinity, which  is  the  integers  or  ne  cuting  from  one, zero  to  infinity  large. These  are  the  concept  of  set and  Then  you  can  operate  among  the  set. Talking  about  this  set,  we  can  have  the  so called  the  closed  set  and  open  set by  if  you  look  at  the  symbol, you  use  brackets. We  sometimes  call  it  square. Will  be  like  square  one,  call  this, or  if  it's  open  mean  in  this  case, this  is  close  one  mean the  two  e  value  so  inside  this  set. But  if  the  set  does  not include  the  edge  value,  the  two  value, then  we  use  this  open  one,  the  symbol  parens. I  this  symbol. It  will  not  include  a  in  B,  the  value. For  example,  if  this  zero  to  one, using  the  close  set, you  will  include  zero  in  one, but  if  open,  then  you  will  never  go  to  zero. It  can  be  very  small. S00  0.0  001,  but  never touch  zero  if  you  are  using this  like  the  parents. You  need  to  be  careful about  this  subtle  difference. Then  as  I  mentioned, you  can  have  operation intersection  of  two  set. This  simple  means,  you  only pick  the  value  common  in  the  two  set, such  as  this  is  one,  three,  58, another  set  18,  f, the  element  is  one  and  eight. Neither  is  not  four  nor  three,  five. This  is  the  intersection,  one  and  eight. I  will  be  a  smaller  one. You're  doing  intersection.  On  the  other  end, you  can  union  of  the  two  set. Un  mean  you  starting  with  one  set, then  whatever  the  other  set, there  is  a  new  element, you'll  just  add  in  you  expand  this  set. You  see  here,  the  angst,  only  two, this  become  from  four, and  three  become  five. Because  some  of  the  elements  are  common. You  don't  explain  those.  You  don't  repeat. You  only  picking  the  new  one.  S  functions. This  is  important  one  already defined  set  and  you  see  then  we can  function  is  something  like you  are  mapping  from  one  set  to  the  other. As  we  introduce  the  a  very  simple  function of  learning  from  input  data  x  to  y. This  is.  The  mapping can  be  from  one  set to  the  other  through  a  function. Typically,  we  go  this  input  one, the  one  you're  going  to  map  is  b  main and  the  other  function  value. You  go  to  another  set, we  call  it  code  do  main  or sometimes  those  function  value you  can  go  into  because  code do  main  can  be  big. For  example,  you  map  into  Lyer  axis, which  is  very  long, but  this  function  value, you  may  only  take  go  into a  certain  subset  of  d, so  we  call  it  a  range  or  image. It's  different  from  the  atom. Atom  is  the  possible  value  you  can  map  into, but  range  is  talking  about those  values  you  actually  mat  into  day  one. Then  you  can  do  by  from  vector  to a  scalar  or  vector  to  vector,  and  so  on. Depending  on  how  you  define  your  functions. This  is  what  you  can  operate. Then  another  important  one  is  fun  functions, there  are  many  different  functions. The  simplest  one  is  linear, and  you  can  extend  a  little  bit further  to  fi  functions. Yeah.  So  Let's  see this  is  a  general  functions. But  this  one  you  think  your  power  tool. Certainly, you'll  see  this  is  not  a  linear  one. We  want  to  see  what  linear. Linear  is  most  simple  one because  if  you  look  at  vector, W  is  equal  to  d  dimensional. Then  you  also  want  to  have  another  d  vector. So  what  you'll  do  here  linear is  mean  you  only  have a  linear  combination  from this  given  d  vector, which  is  total  d  value. Then  each  value,  you'll  give  weight. And  then  you  don't  see  any  power of  two  or  power  of  three  and  so  on. This  we  call  it  linear a  linear  function  or  in  the  product. This  is  quite  simple  one. Then,  the  important  one is  f  function  is  similar  to  linear, but  you'll  just  add  on  another bier  like  constant  at. The  only  difference  is  here. Then  you  want  to see  the  definition  of  linear, you  will  satisfy  this  two  property from  the  ginear  t, this  vector,  you  multiply  by  a  scalar, you  can  pull  out  this  scalar  outside this  Additivity  is  if  you  have  two, add  two  vector  together, apply  to  the  function, is  the  same  as  you  apply separately  to  this  x  first,  and  then  y. That's  very  important  property  of the  linear  linear  functions. This  is  already  already  mentioned, the  inner  product  satisfy this  linear  operation,  and  the  Okay. So  you  can  extend  to  more  than  one  vector, more  than  two,  you  can have  a  linear  combination. The  difference  between  linear and  you  can  see  here. You  can  have  a  so  called  scaler, adding  one  t  one. We  call  it  is  offset  or  bias. You  can  see  here  the  linear is  passing  the  origins. Is  also  linear  straight  light, but  there  is  offset  here, is  not  passing  this  p. That's  I  think  there  is another  important  one  particularly  in optimization  is  we  have  this  local  minimum, given  a  function,  you  see, if  the  x  equal  to  a  certain  value  equal, then  in  the  nearby  reasons, About  around  this  x  equal  to  C. All  the  other  value  is  greater or  equal  to  f  of  c, then  we  call  this  a  local  minimum. But  local  minimum  is only  in  the  nearby  region. It  doesn't  go  beyond  this  this  region. I  have  to  be  be  careful  about  that  and global  minimum  is  EBO have  many  local  minimum. Among  the  local  minimum, the  one  is  the  lowest  value, we  call  it  global  minimum. This  is  the  illustration. This  one  is  local  minimum, is  only  minimum  near  here. This  one  is  a  global  one because  it  will  be  smaller than  this  one  and  all  the  other  value. That's  Then  mathematically,  quite  often, we  want  to  given  a  set, we  want  to  get  this you  see  the  maximum  value. Both  for  you  can look  at  the  function  value to  get  the  maximum  one, and  quite  often,  we  need  to  get  for  example, this  is  the  minimum  value  is  the  same. Mi  minimum  is  the  opposite. For  example,  you  get  this  value  here, but  quite  often  we want  to  look  at  the  argument. Which  value  give  you  this  function  value  is a  global  minimum  or  in  the same  here  is  the  maximum. This  is  if  you  put  argument  here. That  mean  we  are  calculating this  corresponding  argument  of  the  A  here. Yeah.  You  can  see  here. Sometimes  we  if  it's  clear, then  we  can  drop this  because  our  maximum  here, you  see  we're  referring  to  get the  argument  of  A.  Yeah. Yeah.  Then  we  can  apply  to  the minimum  one,  similar  meaning. Finally,  we  look  at  the  derivative  and then  later  also  the  optimization  pieces. I  think  the  more  calculus  you've  already learned  before  derivative, take  the  derivation. Then  if  the  deliv  of, we  will  corresponding  to  the  case, there  is  no  change you  can  also  extend  it  to  vector. Being  you  taking  derivative with  respect  to  each  of the  element  here  of  the  x  is  a  vector. I  become  a  new  vector. Even  you  start  with  a  scalar  scalar  function. This  is  useful  because  in  new  levels, sometime  we  call  it  a  gradient of  this  and  this  symbol  here. The  reverse  triangle  or  capital  ta, that  the  upside  down. You  can  also  extend  it to  a  vector  vector  function, take  the  derivative  with  respect  to  vector. In  this  case,  it  will  become  matrix, but  it's  not  usually  not a  square  one  because  depending  on the  size  of  the  vector  function, and  also  the  vector, you  are  going  to  take  derivative. This  is  the  representation  here. This  matrix,  we  sometimes  call the  copian  of  the  F  x  here. And  some  of  the  symbols, you  are  using  vector  matrix,  differentiation. You  don't  need  to  memorize  this. I  think  you  can  just probably  we  need  this  in  the  quiz  or  exam, we  will  give  this  property  to you  like  If  you  have  linear, A  is  a  constant  matrix. It's  not  available,  but  x  is  available. The  tech  derivative. This  is  something  similar  to  linear  function. You  end  up  with  this,  A  is  a  coefficient. Similarly,  if  we  are  dealing  with  this, you  see  y  here, y  is  independent  of  x. You  can  just  consider  you see  this  as  come  Let  me  see. You  can  combine  here. To  this,  but  you  need to  take  the  transpose  here. I  think  here,  we're  assuming our  A  here  is  symmetries. D  Y  No.  For  this  product, you  need  to  do  a  transpo  here. In  general,  you'll  have  the  quatratic  one. You  need  to  pay  attention. These  two  are  not  the  same  because x  here  is  the  one  we're  going  to  take. So  you're  going  to  take  y, you  consider  this  is  independent of  x  here  is  x  transpo. You  will  end  up  with  this. So  Finally, we'll  look  at  the  constraint  optimization. This  is  very  important because  very  often  we  need to  get  the  minimum  position, but  subject  to  some  constraints  here because  we have  to  satisfy  certain  constraints. Very  useful  way  to  do  is  you  use the  lacung  optimization  or the  lacungan  equation  to consider  this  logngan and  determine  multiply  together. To  form  a  new  function. Every  day  you  can  take  derivative just  treating  that  as  a  new  function. Typically  here,  to  solve  it, you  also  need  to  take derivative  with  respect  to this  Lambda  and  then  you  solve  this  equation. So  I  think  for  the  detail, I  will  leave  to proto  in  the  subsequent  lectures. A  couple  next  six  lectures  from next  I  may  sometimes  come to  help  with  the  quiz  or  some  other  thing. Mostly  for  the  teaching, so  it  will  be  done  by  him.  Yeah.  I. I  hope  that  you'll  consider this  first  two  lecture  as  an  introduction. I  think  Lecture  one  is  more  general. Lecture  two,  actually  we  have some  technical  content  here for  not  too  difficult, but  just  a  lot  of  information, data,  metrics  and  so  on. So,  I  hope  to  again, at  least  sing  the  quiz  here. So  do  remember,  we  find  will be  the  first  online  quiz, but  you  need  to  do  it  in  person  here. Okay.  All  of  you  will  come  well now  the  extra,  you  know, requirements  and  the  scope  of, you  know,  the  part  will be  taken  into  each  quiz  later  on. Okay?  I  think  it's  about  time  to  finish  here. If  you  have  questions, you  can  you  know,  stay  back. You  always  welcome  here. A  questions  you  are  most  welcome to  let  me  know  or  let  other  to  lecture. Okay.  Yeah.  We  can finish  the  class  here  today. Thank  you  for  coming. I'll  see  you.  Thank  you.
