A Okay. I  think  some  are not  familiar  with  this  LK  location, so  we  wait  for  a  few  minutes. Okay.  I  think  we  can  start  the  class. Let  me  first  introduce  myself. My  name  is  Dinger  Ping, and  we  have three  professors  teaching  this  co. As  you  know,  the  course is  analytic  and  sample  machine  learning. This  is  from  this  semester, it  will  be  one  of  the  SE  courses  for  students from  the  SPM  August  2  026  pas, I  mean  the  new  students. But  for  other  programs, it  will  be  GE  and  for SPM  students  before  this  pas, like  for  example, from  last  year  or  January, if  you'll  take  this  course, it  will  still  be  considered  as  GE  just to  let  you  know  the  differentiations. But  in  terms  of  assessments  or  final  exams, even  cost  registrations, there's  no  difference. I  think  you'll  just  follow  the  same  way. Of  course,  student  in  SPML, will  directly  confirm  into the  class where  other  programs,  you  need  to  wait. See  how  much  vacancies  still  have. Currently,  I  think  we  have  near  400  students, so  we'll  see  how  much  we  can  accommodate. Later,  I  will  introduce the  other  two  professors because  they  are  part  time  lecturers. I'm  full  time  one  and I'm  currently  the  program  director  of  SPML. So  our  e  mail  address  here. Any  questions  you  can always  e  mail  to  one  of  us. I'm  the  coordinator  of  this  course, but  I  only  teach two  weeks  this  week  and  next  week. Later  I  will  let  you  know the  teaching  sequences  and the  roadmap  of  this  course. Today  is  L  lectures, I  will  say  is  more  of  the  introductions  for the  overall  cost  scopes, and  the  roadmap,  and  what  you  are expected  to  learn  and  requirements  and  so  on. I  think  you  now  is still  within  the  drop  pile. So  I  think  some  students  probably building  one  this  week  and  half  or  next  week, you  still  can  decide, which  cause  to  tack  so. But  in  any  case,  if  you confirm  the  tech  cause  you  can. Always  take  us. If  you  have  question  of course  during  the  class, you  are  welcome  to ask  questions  in  the  middle or  during  the  break  or at  the  end  of  the  class. We'll  take  just  one  break. I  most  of  the  MC  lectures  in  the  middle. And  we  end  a  little  bit  early. That's  arrangement. As  I  say,  this  is  the  contents. That  mean  I  also  breakdown  into, you  know,  who  is  teaching  what. So  as  you  can  see  the  first  two  weeks  only, but  I  will  be  coordinator  doing  some of  the  other  help  with  CA  exams  and  so  on. And  from  week  three  onwards, it  will  be  by Professor  Tok  second  professors and  he  will  teach  six  weeks, which  is  the  main  part  of  the  sample,  sorry, it  will  be  the  analytic  learning  part and  After  date  in  week  nine  onwards, it  will  be  taught by  Professor  Simon  Le  for  five  weeks. So  it's  two,  six  and  five. I  think  for  some  of  you  who already  taken  because  the  courses  are currently  mainly  from  new  students as  usual  because  we  have more  students  in  August  space. But  there  are  also  some  students  from the  January  this  year  or  even  from  last  year, some  students  take  three semester  or  two  years  to  finish  the  course. If  you  happen  to  take  e6405  before  NLP, then  P  also  ta  about  half  of  the  cost  there. Okay.  So  you  may  already  know  him? Learning  objective  of  this  course  will  try to  explain  the  motivation of  starting  machine  learning  in  grain. I  think,  but  I  guess  nowadays, machine  learning  is  popular. So  most  of  you  already  have some  exposure  it's  still useful  to  give  some  highlights and  maybe  some  of  you  know, some  of  you  may  not  know, so  I  hope  this  can  help. Then  We  will  go  through the  roles  of  Y  analytic  learning and  ensemble  learning. This  is  in  this  course. How  are  you  related  to  the  modern  AI and  Also  understand  how this  course  is  organized. That's  very  important  before you  take  you  spot the  course  or  even  decide  to  take  or  not. Also  identify  the  main  topics  that  covers  in the  remaining  lectures or  the  remaining  weeks. This  is  also  I  already  send  the  nouns for  those  of  you  a  NT  learn  least. So  to  make  it easier  because  my  only  is  a  small  ping. Usually  one  is  the  general  introduction. I  combine  this  weeks  one  and two  together  with  a  protos  part  into, we  call  it  together  as  part  one. I  cover  eight  weeks. So  it's  more  than  the  second  part, which  is  only  55  weeks. So  in  According  to  the  portion, we  will  fine  exam. I  think  we  already  taught  this  course about  last  year  and  the  year  before, but  only  one  semester  per  year. Is  twice.  You  can  go  to  library to  look  at  some  past  year  exam  paper. Currently  two  should  be available  now  or  soon. You  can  refer. We'll  follow  this  setting. 2.5  questions  for  P  one. And  then  1.5  questions  for the  two  according  to  the  contains. Then  for  the  CA, we  dig  only  for  quiz  from  the  beginning, is  not  changing  recently, some  other  courses  make  change. We  can  keep  updating  the  assessment. But  for  this  course,  from  the  beginning, we  say  online  online  quiz. But  please  take  note  online  and not  doing  at  home  or  even  overseas. Must  be  in  class. I  also  make  the  announcement. You  need  to  require  to  use the  lockdown  browsers  and  so  on. It  will  be  closed  book the  arrangement  is  we do  first  one  in  five  a  C  one, which  is  10%  in  total  is  40%, that's  most  of  the  EE  causes  in  this  way. Then  the  second  quiz is  a  little  bit  more  contained. You  will  cover  15% d  eight  as  after  the  recess  rate. You'll  have  more  time  to  prepare between  these  two  quiz. This  two  cover  the  part  one, the  first  eight  we. Of  course,  the  second  quiz  will  not  cover the  teaching  material  in a  will  be  up  to  seven, and  then  you  have  the  recess. And  finally,  for  the  quiz  three, it  will  be  for  Part  two, and  it  will  be  done  in  week  12  by  Simon  D, it  will  be  for  this  part. So  I  hope  this  is  clear. This  is  also  50%. We  did  that  in  the  past,  two  years. It's  working  quite  well. Most  of  the  student  no  problem.  Yeah. Later,  I  will  also  high  highlight  again, particularly  for  new  students  bank  this  Yeah. We  may  try  to  do  try  wrong. They  ask  all  the  students come  for  just  simple maybe  test  to  see  whether Yeah  it's  working  for  you. Maybe  de  four. That's  because  some  students say  they  only  P  be very  few  and  some  students say  they  only  use  apples. I  think  in  the  past,  iPad  seems  okay. The  iPad  but  not very  stable,  sometimes  working. Usually  PC  using  windows  will  be  okay. Using  apples  unique  may  have  problem. Uh  advise  you  not  to  yeah  you  know,  PC  now, you  can  always  install  one  person,  you  know, unique  and  other  using  windows  like my  my  my  computer  also. Then  this  is  the  textbook. You  can  see  the  book  four  cos, the  three  of  us  teaching  this  course. It's  quite  highly  relevant, quite  new  one  and  is  free  if  you  are  looking to  NTU  library  using  your  student  class, so  you  can  download  these  books. ECP.  And  the  book contains  most  of  the  chapter some  exercises  and  problems and  solutions  also  provide. This  is  a  good  practice. So  when  teaching  this  course, I  know  we  don't receive  any  complaint  or  any  requests  from students  or  they  need more  exercises  to  practice because  they  are  plenty, you  go  through  those  Yeah. For  other  courses,  we  don't  have  this  book. Then  sometimes  have this  request  from  student. There  are  some  references mostly  general  machine  learning or  other  ensemble  learning. At  this  point,  I  think  it  is a  good  time  to  pause to  introduce  the  book and  the  teaching  team  in  more  detail. This  is  what  repair. I  can  see,  this  is  the  folder  of  the  copy  of the  book  and  I  won't  go through  the  container  as  you  can  see. The  book  is  a  more  highlighting from  the  title  is analytic  learning  methods for  p  technical  condition, which  is  part  of  the  machine  contents. But  I  think  most  of the  the  techniques  you  can use  for  more  general  pass. Later  we  will  mention  this and  give  the  relevance. And  this  is  the  link  also. And  as  I  say,  easier, you'll  go  to  D  library. This  is  the  first  professor. Sur  name  is,  photo  gun I  think  this  is  the  shot, the  one  page  so  called  file  data. He's  a  Singapore  citizen. Singaporean  is  a  native  Singaporean, but  he  works  in  Yong  She  University, South  Korea  for  20  years being  a  professor  there. But  recently, you  can  see  from  March  this  year, he  retired  as  emit  professor. I  mean  just  like  I  become  a  owners  professor, but  he  still  teaching  here. Currently  this  course  actually is  quite  a  few  years  younger  than  I. So  you'll  see,  younger  professor  retire, more  senior,  still  doing  this  full  time  job. But  I  may  retire  soon  also  like. Not  for  this  semester. Okay.  You  can  see he  has  quite  before  going  to  career, he  also  work  at,  you  know, I  square  or  now  called  A  Star, and  he's  very  active  in,  you  know, serving  as  associate  editor for  several  top  journals and  the  research  area is  machine  learning  and  pattern  recognition. And  he  is  NTU  alumni  here. You'll  see  PSD  from  NTU,  which  is  1999. Coincidentally,  the  year  I  join  NTU,  1999. So  you'll  see  I  should  be  older  than  him, he  just  graduated,  and  I became  the  associate  professor  there. It  is  this  course the  main  topic  in  analytic  learning, as  you  can  see  here. You  can  see  from  the  book  is  the  main  author for  he  wrote  most  of the  book  this  is the  professor  in  the  team,  Simon  Dell. You  can  see  quite holding  a  high  position  in  the  AI  companies. He  changed  twice. Previously,  you  can  see in  Lazada  senior  vice  president, but  now  he's  a  chief  da  and  AI  offices at  Trust  decision. I  think  some  of  you  took the  recents,  select  dtation  project. I  he  proposed  some  together  with  me and  you  can  see  the  topic will  be  related  to  what this  company  is  doing is  some  risk  management, you  know,  like  related  to  ban  banking, so  you  can  go  to  the  Internet  to  find  out. As  I  mentioned,  he  is  also  teaching 6405  and  already  for  several  years. Of  course,  this  course. He  taught  twice  before  and  will  continue. H  PhD  is  from  University  of  Toronto. Usually  he  took  a  course from  Professor  Hinton, one  of  the  Nob  price  wins  in  2024,  it's  very Interesting  to  know.  Then  you'll  see, it  will  be  teaching  the  P two,  the  example  learning. I  think  that's  about the  introduction  of  this. Briefly  highlight  this. I  think  we'll  come  into  this  later  on. Exam  this  I  will  mentioned. The  The  one  thing  here  is  for  the  three  quiz, we  will  do  it  here and  need  to  use  the  lockdown  prose. You  need  to  install,  and then  before  you  start, you  need  to  so  that  you  will  be  disconnect  to other  software  and  so  you  can only  use  NT.  Yeah. As  I  say,  you  can get  this  from  the  link  here. We'll  come  into  this  later. Let  you  know  because  now  they are  usually  the  first  lecture, the  more  student  here. It's  easier  to  communicate in  case  your  question, you  can  also  ask. So  we  come  back  into  here. Any  questions  so  far  for  the  one?  Yeah. It's  good  to  make  it  clear  at  the  beginning. So  that  easier  for  you  to  prepare. As  I  say,  we  will start  with  machine  learning. This  is  just  at  the  inter  factory  level. I  now  most  of  you  or  all  of  you  should  know, but  we  follow  the  quite  a  different  way of  dividing  machine  learning. I  think  one  of the  commonly  accepted  ways  follow this  by  the  famous  professor  Mitch  in  1997, because  the  T  has the  books  on  this  machine  learning. Basically  from  what  define here  is  machine  learning  the  algorithm, you  will  learn something  and  learn  from  where, mainly  starting  from  data. I  will  be  the  so  called  data or  experience  treatment  ways of  learning. It's  different  from  other  types  like  you used  in  the  early  day like  using  some  math  expression, so  follow  the  gibbon  learning  model. Here  you're  given  some  data  and then  up  to  date  based  on  the  data, and  also  need  to have  some  if  you're doing  supervised  learning, you'll  need  some  ground  chose to  follow  just  like you'll  learn  from  teacher. You're  not  just  learning, you  need  to  see  some of  performance  improvement. Otherwise,  if  you  do  something, but  do  not  get  any  results,  so  it's  not  good. Need  D. D  file  a  performance  measure. It's  called  P.  Then  after  learning, you'll  see  some  performance  improvement. So  this  is  what  you  can  see. You  can  also  see  from  this  block  diagram. Machine  learning  is  somewhere  in  the  middle, you  given  data,  then you'll  define  some  learning  model, learning  algorithms,  and  you  need  to  use a  performance  measure  that  different ways,  usually  accuracy,  basic. And  then  to  see how  much  improvements  and  so  on. Then  the  task  because  you need  to  do  something. You  learn  and  then  to  do  something. This  is  the  pass you  need  to  achieve  For  example, classification,  regression, clustering,  and  so  on. That's  usually  very  common  ways. I  think  this  is  EG. Then  you  can  also  follow some  common  many  examples and  one  of  the  EG  one, I  think  we  everyone  come across  daily  is  for  example, you  have  e  mail  and  very  typical  we have  span  e  mail,  no  span. Sometimes  we  call  it  um  HAM. The  meaning  is  useful,  not  spunk. It's  not  harmful  as  it may  mistaken  it  as  short  form  as  harmful. You  can  see  in  this  simple  example, you  know,  the  pipeline  is  you  have  every  day, you  have  gook  e  mail  or  spunk  e  mail, then  Normally,  you  can collect  many  and  you can  give  the  labor  first. You  can  do  some  kind  of  feature  extraction. If  you  are  not. Of  course  you  nowaday  you  can  also  define the  delnding  model  to  do  it from  n  to  n.  But  the  more  traditional  ways you  try  to  do  some  feature  et  representation. In  a  you  do some  model  training  and Then  once  you  get  the  model, you  can  apply  to pass  for  whatever  new  e  mail  incoming  e  mail, you  see  whether  span  one  or  not. This  example  is  simple, but  it  does  show if  you  are  using  computer  githms, you  can  learn  from  both  known  examples. In  this  case,  the  example  is the  e  mail  e  mail  you  receive. Normally,  if  you  have  higher  data  quality  and the  classification  or the  prediction  performance, it  will  be  better. This  is  quite  interesting. If  you  look  at  NTU  NTU  e  mail, it  does  have  this  filtering  function. At  least  for  me,  I  don't  know. It  should  be  the  same  student  e  mail. You  also  have  the  span  holder. You  can  see  the  algorithm  implement  there. Not  very  I  can  sort  out some  Jang  e  mail  or  spank  e  mail. But  the  accuracy  is  not  very  high. Because  sometimes  a  gook  e  mail also  go  there  and sometimes  the  Jang  e  mail or  spank  email  still come  into  the  normal  income  box. You  can  see  There  is  a  big  difference. You  develop a  very  good  machine  learning  algorithm or  models  comparing  to the  easy  one  or  the  average  one. You'll  see  from  this  real  life  example, you  will  see  the  main  idea of  machine  learning  here  is  learn from  data  and  you'll  try  to  improve if  you  are  given  more  example  so. Then  this  is  also another  very  common  ways  to learn  machine  learning,  you  should  know. In  the  past,  we  usually classify  into  three  times. The  most  easy  and commonly  use  is  supervised  learning. And  the  opposite, it  will  be  unsupervised  learning. In  between,  you  can  have the  semi  supervised  learning. Then  I  think  all  of  you  know  quite  well, supervised  learning,  you  need  to have  some  of  labor  data. The  main  highlight  here, you  look  at  the  data. You  will  have  both  the  sample, the  input  data,  and  the  labor  X  i. On  that  end,  unsupervised  learning, you  only  have  un  labor  data. The  data,  you  need  to  learn  from  it. You  don't  know  the  labor, so  it's  more  like  clustering. Where  semispervise  learning  as you'll  see  in  between. You  have  mostly  unlabor  data, but  have  some  small  labor  data  to  guide  you. There's  another  Another  branch which  now  is  getting more  and  more  attention is  called  reinforcement  learning. This  is  particularly  useful, like  we  are  nowadays, very  popular  to  learn  or to  use  robots  and  controls  and  so  on. Particularly.  Robotics. This  reinforcement  learning  is quite  useful  because  this  is  different from  the  other  three  times  s  b or  sems  bye  because  those  are more  say  is  given  data  then you  design  the  equim  do  it. We  reinforcement  learning  is  more  like interact  with  the  environment like  the  lob  learning, doing  some  tasks,  and  it's  more  dynamic, you  are  doing  it  improve  along  the  way, like  adaptive  learning.  Yeah. Actually  in  the  special  terms  in July  we  just  over this  one  special  term  cause is  called  law  enforcement  learning. But  currently  in  the  whole  school  of  E, we  don't  have  whole  course dedicated  to  reinforcement  learning. It  could  be  part  of  the  other  courses. That's  why  in  this  course. I  think  a  sample  learning  part, we  would  spend  little  maybe  one  lecture talking  reinforcement  learning together  with  semble  learning. Consider  as  a  part  of  the  combination. Yeah.  That's  the  very  brief  introduction about  this  different  type  of  learning. But  I  think  for  the  detail, you  you  can  see  from this  lecture  notes  and like  starting  from  definition, the  goals  of  learning. The  main  main  Obvious different  is  this  training  data. But  if  you  look  at the  reinforcement  is  not directly  using  the  training  data. It's  more  like  interactions.  You  have. Of  course,  along  the  way, you  still  need  to  deal  with  data, but  it's  more  combined with  the  so  called  environment, and  then  you  need  to  tech  action, and  also  you  need  to  define give  the  rewards  to see  whether  you're  doing this  task  correctly  or  wrongly. And  then  of  course, you're  doing  correctly,  improvement, you'll  get  higher  reward or  otherwise,  can  be  penalized. These  are  the  things different  from  other  category. In  in  this  course, we  mainly  highlight  more  supervised  learning. This  is  more  fundamental but  some  of  the  techniques can  also  apply  to  other  type  of  lending. And  the  evolution  of machine  learning  that's several  ways  to  define. You  can  date  back  to the  very  early  days  and  so  on. But  I  think  here  we  can follow  from  the  data because  remember  at  the  beginning, we  say  machine  learning, you  really  need  data  treatment. If  you  look  at  using  this  approach, you  can  see  at  the  very  beginning, more  ue  based  AI. T  when  I  was  doing  my  PhD  in  the  1980s, which  is  for  40  years  back. There  was  just  starting of  the  machine  learning. At  that  time  is  even  not really  called  machine  learning  date. There  is  a  popular  topic there  is  exper  system. Nowadays,  I  think  some  of  you  gook  research, you  may  know,  there  is  a  gook  journal. It  called  per  system  and  was  application. So  start  from  that. Ex  system  basically  is  a  low  base because  you  learn  from  the  defect  many  los. That  was  a  popular  time  there, but  I  think  now  very  few  people actually  use  this  systems. Become  like  the  models that  will  be  statistical  daban. Sometimes  we  also  call  it as  a  pattern  recognition. So  in  this  methodology, statistical  and  also  probabilities to  model  the  data  in  this  diagram, you  can  see  you  can look  at  the  distributions, PDA,  and  so  on. From  the  data,  you  try to  see  the  patterns  and do  the  learning  and  the  classifications. This  is  so  go  the  second  phase. Then  this  is  the  B  one, now  is  move  on  to data  treatment.  Machine  learning. Here,  you  will  learn  more directly  from  data  and  try  to generalize  those  unseen  examples and  emphasize on  algorithms  and  optimizations to  make  it  more  general. Then  the  next  phase, which  is  commonly  called  deep  learning. About  more  than  ten  years  ago already  is  representation  treatment. In  this  case,  mostly  using neural  networks  and  what  other  early  methods, not  necessarily  neural  network, could  be  some  other  statistical  approach given  the  models  in  equations  formula. In  this  case,  typically highlight  with  large  amount  of  data. You  learn  from  more  example and  then  from  there, you  try  to  repent to  do  a  better  representation  directly, like  what  I  mentioned  earlier, like  the  end  to  end  approach  from  given  data. Then  you  learn  the  whole  models like  black  box. Finally,  the  more  current  stays. I  think  some  of  you  are  already  working on  projects  related  to das  more  like  the  foundation  models, like  typically  large  language  models, multi  model,  AI,  and  so  on. In  this  approach,  mostly  will  be  based on  transformer  blocks  and So  and  your  knee  even  more  data, and  could  be  multi  moodel,  text  mags, dos,  and  all  combined  together. So  it's  more  comprehensive and  have  a  very  good  general  capability. These  are  more  or  less we  call  the  pipeline  and the  evolution  of  the  and  as  I  say, it  would  be  good  to  see  you  some  of the  breakthroughs  in  machine  learning or  AI  in  more  channel. I  think  some  of this  is  quite  like  for  example, the  APA  goals, actually  was  ten  years  ago,  but Here  nowadays,  the  impact  is still  here  because  we  yield this  example  to  highlight  the  benchmark about  how  AI  or  machine  learning evolved  from  the  early  days  because this  very  breakthrough  was the  first  time  machines, using  algorithm  only,  like developed  by  Google  Dep  MT. I  I rely  the  human  goal  the  number  one, the  goal  player,  which  at  that  time, it  was  very  famous  South  Korean, L  sat  make  very  big  news. I  think  this  is  very  important. Although  it  ten  years  ago, I  think  the  impact  is  still  here. Why  We  won't  go  into  detail  historic. I  think  it's  good  to  know  this because  to  play  goal  is  even  different, more  complicated  compelling  to  play  chess, you  see  which  was  early  like  machine. This  machine  learning  Agim  keep  evolving. You  see  early  than  that  1997. IBM  deep  group  already  play computer  gorym  better  than human  being  in  chess. But  people  say,  a,  it's  good, but  still  not  that significant  because  goal  is much  more  complicated  or  much  more  harder. So  for  quite  some  time, we  did  not  expect the  AI  algorithms  is  developing  so  fast. So  this  march  march,  you  know, the  very  important  so  called  breakthroughs in  AI. I  appear  in  very  different  news,  CNB  DC, I  think  you  probably  know  four  B, newspapers,  TVs,  it's  all  talking  about  this. Even  in  China,  you  see  the  people  daily. They  also  give  the  comin saying  the  result  really shocked  AI  and  the  goals and  communities  and  so  on  because  yeah, we  did  not  expect,  you  know, we  can  do  it  so  well  in  AI  so  fast. Yeah. But  there's  some  interesting  development because  very  recently, I  don't  know  whether  some of  you  pay  attention. I  myself,  I  also  happen  to see  this  news  is  just  last  month  to  run. War  number  one  human  profession. This  is  also  from  South  Korea looks  at  South  Korea. Data  in  play  goals. This  go  AI  ct  go. This  is  open  source  algorithm. Everyone  can  OG  open  source, where  early  on  the  Apha  goal, which  is  a  closed  source. I  mean  only  the  outside  people do  not  know  how  to  modify this  go  AI  to go  is  the  one  following  the  Alpha  goal, but  make  it  open  source. You  can  see  this  is  even  an  improved  version. So  it's  good  for those  go  professional  player. They  can  use  it  to  pass  and  In  the  valuation, three  game,  but  you  need to  mention  this  is  handicap  match. Handicap  means  the  algorithm give  give  way  to  the  human  two  piece, like  your  junk  let  you  go  first. And  then  in  this  case,  in  the  three  games, the  human  professional  player  wins  two  games. So  in  some  saying  the  beating  the  computers, the  top  AI  algorithm. So  you'll  see  not  say fully  the  AI  can  do  everything. I  always  myself,  I think  regularly  in the  hardware  like  robotics. I  think  AI  some long  long  way  to  go,  not  every  field. For  example,  I  know, very  recently  last  month, this  word  game  word  football. So  you  see  Can  you  imagine you  at  least  not  in  the  near  future. Human  play  with  in  a  team. Bot  now  is  probably  doing better  in  a  single  player, but  in  terms  of  the  team  collaboration, I  think  still  very  far  away. So  you  at  least  not  in  the  next  few  years, you'll  see  a  world  cup  played  by, you  know,  the  whole  team  is global  to  match  against  those, you  know,  pop  football  player. That's  very  very  my  opinion  is  not  that  easy. So  at  least  we  have  some,  you  know, some  Go  gear  to  learn this  AI  and  do  our  best. So  Okay. And  then  another  one,  This  is  more  in  signs. Also  very  important.  Machine  learning  apply to  this  protein  protein  structure. This  is  more  recent because  later  we  will  talk  more  about  this. This  is  previously,  you  use  human. There  are  always  human  scientists  try  to  get the  protein  three  D  structure based  on  the  g  sequence sequence  is  like  one  D. You  have  many  one  D  sequence, but  one  sequence  you  can  fall  different  ways. How  do  you  get  the  correct three  D  structure  of  the  prodin, which  is  a  very  important  topic. Of  course,  we  are  not  going  into  detail, but  this  is  what  I  I  use  here  is  all from  some  other  source like  published  paper  or  the  Internet, not  my  figures  or  diagram. We  give  credits. And  then  this  one  A  F is  the  same  company,  AI  top  company. Google  is  D  D. You'll  see  the  AlphaGo  or Alpha  Apha  four  because Google's  parent  company  is Alpha.  You'll  see  this. Yeah. From  this  sequence. We  try  to  predict this  protein  three  d  structure. But  this  is  very  important in  the  medicines,  you  know, if  you  know  the  protein three  D  structure  accurately, then  you  can  use  it  to  analyze  or even  dev  drugs  for  some  of  the, very  sei,  very  severe. Disease  like  cancers  or  some  other  type. Over  the  past  years, there  are  always  this so  called  Casper  organizer. The  full  meaning  is  critical  assessment of  protein  structure  prediction. They'll  see  in  the  past, there  is  a  competition  every  year  to  see which  scientific  teams  can do  this  prediction  better. There  is  a  competition,  but In  2020.  That's  not many  just  a  few  years  ago. The  four  is  done  so  well, totally  beaten  of the  other  human  scientist  teams. So  why  this  competition  organization decided  to  close  because the  snowball  is  always  wins. You  can  see  in  these  things this  AI  is  very very  useful  because  we  save a  lot  of  laboratory, human  effort  to  do  this  prediction. This  figures  also  come  from  here. It  was  some  years  ago. You  can  see  experiment by  if  you  are  looking  at  190  k  structure, it  will  be  this  tiny  one, the  number,  very  small. Then  this  Alpha,  this  refer to  other  experiment  done  by  others. Then  previously,  this  Alpha  four  DP, you  can  only  do  1  million  structure. This  is  another  larger  circle. But  now  today  is  referred  some  years  back. Apaf  database  today  can already  do  more  than 200  million  more  than  ten. You  can  see  the  huge  difference. I  believe  nowadays  you  can  do  even  more, but  I  heard  they  already  done  most  of the  known  or  existing protein  three  D  structure. But  it's  not  done  by  this  algorithm, it  will  take  the  human  scientist many  years  to  finish. This  You  see  here, as  I  mentioned  protein  structure is  very  central  to  biology, medicines,  and  so  on. In  the  past,  there  are,  you  know, some  other  ways  to  try  to solve  this  ing  experiment  like  X  ray, cyst  graphi  or  some  other  means  to  do  it, but  not  very  successful  or  not very  efficient  and  ging  fast  fall, the  prediction  is  really much  better  this  computationally. This  is  a  very  big  breakthrough  for  this, it  has  a  huge  impact  on  science  and  medicine. Is  as  you  can  see  here  because  previously, you  can  take  years  of experimental  effort  or  many  hours  to  do. But  using  these  AIs, you  can  do  it  much  faster and  more  accurately  and  more  many  more, you  know,  database  already  being  done. Again,  you  can  see  there  are  more  recent  NIH, those  projects  or  highlights break  news  showing  that. And  this  is  so  significant, then  you  can  see  2024, no  bail  prize  in chemistry,  this  related  chemistry. This  award  is  given  by  two  team. This  one  is  computational  prodin  design, not  really  related  to  the  work  here, but  more  these  two  work together  for  prodin  structure  prediction. Coincidentally,  this  as  I think  is  somewhat  related  to  Singapore. I  think  one  of  his  parents was  initially  from  Singapore, so  he  has  some  connection. Yeah,  even  came  came  or live  in  Singapore  for  some  time. This  is  the  significant  here is  that  you  can  see  this  work is  so  important. Of  course,  that  year, you  also  know  the  ph, the  nobel  prize  in  physics, was  also  awarded  to  the  two  scientists  in  AI. One  is  what  I  mentioned Hinton  is  so  called  the  founding  father  for for  the  Din  league  they  published the  very  early  paper  in  this  Okay. You'll  see  the  significance  of  the  AI  here. Another  one  is  the  Teslas  full  share of  driving  or  insures  FSD. You  also  now  in  China, there  are  also  some  other  similar  companies doing  very  similar  work. This  is  also  very  significant and  also  very  important  in  loyal  life. This  is  another  new  breakthrough because  The  very  important  message  here is  you  are  using  algorithm to  almost  replace  human  driver  and  of  course, there  are  occasionally  some  accidents, but  human  driver  also  may  road, you  know,  road  accident  and  so  on. And  here  you  can see  also  nowadays  is  not  fully implementing  like  Dadi  by the  some  in  some  special  case, some  zooms,  and  taxis, they  already  have  being  the self  full  self  driving. Okay.  This  is  another  another  breakthrough because  one  of  the  important  one  I  mentioned, just  Tesla  because  it  only  use  camera just  using  using  vision because  some  other  system, they  implement  ging, like  radar  or  LD  and  so  on, as  you  know,  another  way  to  assist. But  the  Tesla's  opinion or  the  approach  insists  there's  no  need to  use  any  other  things  other than  camera  vision  because  human  drivers, you  know,  like  like  myself,  I  drive  the  cars. We  don't  really  need  actually  we  don't  have. We  don't  have  radars, or  we  don't  have  D  or  other, you  know,  other  things. It's  more  just  based  on  our  human  eye  vision. So  this  is  also  very  significant. But  of  course,  the important  essential  here  is  you  need  to have  a  very  good  machine  lending  algorithm to  be  able  to  do  it. Well,  finally,  this  Chet  GPT, and  also  now  the  deep sick  and  some  other  similar  algorithm, which  is  another  so  called  turning  point because  ch  GPT  was  developed  early, comparing  to  comparing  to deep  S  so  we  just  highlight  GPT. Because  it  was  publicly  available  in  2022, which  is  about  four  years  ago. Before  GBT,  there  are already  some  AI  systems  which  are  more specialized  and  interactions  require some  technique  expertise and  the  capabilities  fragment. I  mean,  it's  not  really  systematic. But  once  you  have  these  char  GBT, then  it's  quite  different. The  AI  here became  more  conversational,  general, and  it's  more  adaptive  and  is  getting better  language  also  become primarily  human  AI  interface. And  that's  also  at  the  same  time, you'll  see  the  large  language  model is  very  similar. You  highlight  based  on the  human  language  to  learn  from  that  and Yeah. This  is  a  very  important  step  in  the  AI  and machine  learning  and  putting all  the  several  breakthroughs  together. Then  we  naturally  ask what  make  all  the  breakthrough  happen. I  think  this  is  try  to motivate  how AI  machine  learning  can  do  better. Along  the  breakthrough  and  development, what  are  the  essential  things  there  and what  we  can  we  can  do  on  our  part  here. You  can  summarize  into  several  aspects. One  is,  as  I  already  everyone  know, is  a  mesic  amount  of  data, us  data  and  hardware, also  CPU,  but  now  a  very  popular  GP. Any  project  GP  or  now  even  more  need  like  KP, which  is  more  advanced. In  terms  of  software  is  very  important, there  are  more  open  source platform  and  eco  systems  available. That  make  it  easier  to  develop. And  algorithms. Now  you'll  know  there  are more  advanced  algorithms and  model  architectures. This  is  also  one  of  the  very  important  part. Another  one  is  feedback  loops and  continuous  learning. Later  we'll  see  how  analytic  learning can  be  applied  to the  continuous  learning  also. And  I  won't  go  into  too  much  detail  for each  of  the  topic  because some  of  these  major  amount  of  data, everyone  know  because  in order  to  develop  a  larger  model, dee  learning  or  nowadays  AM, you  really  need  to  have those  huge  data  to  learn. But  nowadays,  some  of  the  data, you  can  even  self  generate  like  Fargo. It  initially  based  on  both  existing  game, but  later  you  can  even do  a  sale  place  and  stimulation. Similarly  the  Tesla,  they  can also  generate  free  data. Once  you  know  from  the  environment, and  you  can  create  more  data. Some  of  these  data  may  not  be existing  data  is  not  the  real  data, but  as  long  as  the  data  can help  you  to  learn the  model  that  will  do  the  work. Yeah. You  can  see  the  data  scales  very  often correlated  directly  with the  performance  improvement. Then  hardware,  as  you'll  see, this  are  very  obvious. You  need  a  high  computation. To  do  this  machine  learning, particularly,  you  are  trying to  develp  large  language  models  and  so  on. As  I  say  from  GPU, you  can  go  to  even  now  like  TPU, which  can  explore  more  optimize  metrics, operation,  o  de  learning,  and  so  on. These  are  very  important  one. Another  one  is  you  need to  get  the  energy  efficiency. If  you  are  doing  H,  using  H  device. So  these  are  also  very important  to  have  this  ware. As  I  say,  you  must  use some  important  and  very  sufficient  hardware to  support  your  theoretical  or  algorithm. Development  to  the  system.  Software  here. Now  they  we  also  talk  about open  source  because  this  is  very important  because  the  open  source are  more  other  people can  follow  without  reinventing  the  wheel. This  is  also  very  important. The  now  barriers a  framework  like  tensor  flow, pyto  and  all  these  liabilities  available. That  make  the  development of  software  much  easier, and  even  some  industry  academic, feedback  loops,  you  can and  you  can  speed  up  the  innovations. Overall,  you  can  see  the  open  ecosystem. It  will  help  transform  AI  from the  isolated  research  previously into  now  this  global  movement. But  on  the  other  hand,  you  also  add pressures  for  individual  researchers. You  really  need  to  work  in. Maybe  nowadays,  everyone, most  people  try  to  find jobs  so  called  big  company because  it's  more  resource. So  that's  competition  become mainly  among  those  top  AI  companies. Even  universities  are  fighting difficult  to  compete  and  algorithm. Of  course,  this  is  also another  very  important. Because  you  need  to  improve, you  need  to  develop better  learning  algorithm, and  architectures,  and  so  on. For  example,  you  all  know  over the  past  ten  years  or  so  there  is a  very  big  huge  fast  development in  deep  neural  network  transformers and  reinforcement  learning, and  sef  supervised  learning  and  so  on. Now  diffusion  models  and  all  this. Yeah.  I  also  is very  important  to  have  this  algorithm make  innovations  in  order  to  turn data  and  computing  to  the  intelligent. This  is  another  one. Feedback  loops  and  continuous  learning. This  is  also  very  important because  we  are  trying to  make  this  learning  to  evolve dynamically  rather  than  statically. That  means  the  modern  way  of learning  is  even  from  their  own  output  to, for  example,  like  self  play, simulations,  so  on. This  is  one  way  of  adaptive  learning, reinforcement  learning, or  continuous  learning. In  this  case,  you  can  also  get some  performance  games  rather  than, using  always  just  some  existing  data because  there's  been  some  concern. Some  of  the  existing  data is  already  fully  used. There's  not  really  new  data  in  some  context. So  that's  y. Okay.  So  I  think  we  are  in  the  middle of  this  first  lure. So  take  a  break  now  then  now  745, we  take  a  15  minutes  break. So  we  come  back  to  continue to  focus  on  this  case. Yeah.  Be  previously,  we  are talking  more  general  concepts. We  come  back  at  55  to  see  you  later. Any  questions  let  me  know. Hello. Can  I  ask  student  Hap  here. Flexi  Master  student  FM. If  you  are  here,  please  come  to  attendance. Only  this  student,  the  other  student. Hello.  Can  I  check student  call  P  here. Under  the  pace  or  Flexi  Master  scheme. If  you  are  here, please  come  to  the  tendons or  after  the  lures  also. Just  let  you  know. Okay.  I  think  we  can  continue from  what  we  led  in  the  first  half. Now  the  previous  half  of  the  lecture  is more  the  general  introductions and  like  motivation  and  the  history, developments  and some  breakthroughs  in  machine  learning. But  of  course,  our  course  here  is not  going  to  cover  all  the  topics, which  is  to  too  big. There  are  also  some  other  courses, highlighting  more  deep  learning  or  so  on. Let's  start  wi  why  we  want  to introduce  this  course  and  also  as  you  can see  the  books  we  recently  published. We  already  know  machine  learning is  becoming  the  very important  in  influential  technologies are  very  important  in  this  new  sexually. Today  it  powers many  different  research  area such  as  intelligence, speech,  recognitions,  autonomous  driving, we  just  mentioned  medical  diagnosis, including  some  of the  other  medical  applications, and  even  scientific  discoveries  and  so  on. But  there  are  still some  important  challenges. We  need  to  be  aware  such as  we  have  increasing  computation  cost, like  your  learning  very large  models  and  so  on. Then  you  need  very  large  training  data set  become  very  common. Still  have the  limited  interpret  like  black  box. The  performance  good  is  to. Then  in  some  area, particularly  medicines  and  finance,  you  see, they  really  need  you to  explain  or  interpret  your  results, not  just  say,  okay, it  worked  well.  It's  not  enough. This  is  one  of  the  limitation. A  so  many  people  are  working  on  data you  heard  of  news  recently  the  pop  a  company, they  keep  building  data  centers because  of  the  high  energy. They  ended  up  with very  high  energy  consumption. Consuming  not  just  electricity  power and  also  water, and  there  are  already  some  resistance from  people  living  nearby  and  so. This  is  one  of the  issues  we  need  to  take  care. Also,  of  course,  everyone  know, you  need  to  do  extensive  primeter  tuning. These  are  some  of the  challenges.  You  know,  we  face. In  this  case,  we  are coupling  two  commentary  paradigm. One  is  analytic  learning in  the  first  part  one, and  the  other  is  semble  learning. This  will  ads  some  of  these  challenges. Although  we  cannot  claim  to a  tres  all  some  of  the  challenges. That's  the  a  purpose. Also,  as  I  mentioned,  nowadays, there  are  many  machine  learning  courses. They  always  directly talk  about  deep  lendings. In  some  saying,  lacking,  the  fundamentals, know  the  principles  or the  algorithm  on  the  series, be  high  and  Some  of these  very  powerful  algorithms  may  not  be so  applicable  if  you  are  dealing  with some  specific  or  small or  medium  scale  problem. That's  why  we  find  this  cause  s  role  to  play. Yeah.  Yeah.  As  we  already  know  there  is a  very  big  success in  machine  learning  methods  nowadays. But  most  of  these  algorithms  are  popular  one. Nowadays,  the  main  approach is  iterative  optimizations. That  means  you  need  to  do  typical  pro Er  propagation,  methods,  and  so  on, and  large  labor  dataset, and  also  extensive  prometer tuning,  we  just  mentioned, high  computation  costs  and limit  interpretability. I  already  mentioned. So  by  focusing  on analytic  learning  and  on  assemble  learning. We  are  trying  to  improve the  learning  efficiency  and interpretability  and also  scalability  in  some  sense. Scalability,  the  analytic  learnings, the  dimtation. But  the  ssamble  learning  can  do  better. I  make  it  clear  and  also  it's  more  robust, particularly  the  ensemble  learning. That's  why  this  course we  will  explore  highlighting these  two  complementary  paradigms. It  starts  with  the  analytic  learning. This  is  first  part  and  it covers  more  topics  and  you  can see  the  wall  of  analytic  s  it comes  from  the  very  old  day like  the  Greek  wall  which. The  true  meaning  of  this, you  also  can  check  the  dials having  the  ability  to analyze  and  divide  the  whole  into  components. Or  elements.  Basically  analytic  like  what do  we  say  analysis  and  synthesis, I  think  control  that  you are  doing  the  opposite  filters, you  have  analysis  filter,  synthesis  filter. Analysis  is  that  you  divide  a  whole into  several  parts  so  that  you  can get  a  better  understanding  of each  component  and  their  relationship. This  is  what  we  call an  analytical  approach  to  learning. Then  in  this  case, because  of  this  approach, you  can  use  prior  knowledge. As  based  rather  than always  directly  learned  from  the  squat. That's  why  it  has  more  inability. Also  the  concepts  can  be  rational, rationally  generalized  and  analyzed  by the  components and  the  structure  of  the  concept. In  this  sins  you  can see  this  analytic  learning. You  will  allow  the  learner to  process  information  and  break into  its  component  parts  and  try  to  generate hypothesis  by  using  some  of the  critical  and  logical  thinking  skill. You  can  focus  on  the  w  of  analytic. You  try  to  analyze  in  this  ss. Then  naturally,  since  nowadays, most  of  the  machine  learning  approach, they  are  using  iterative  training. Why  we  still  want to  consider  analytic  learning. Because  nowadays,  if  you are  using  iterative  optimization, then  there  are  some  popular  and  good  examples like  gradient  dean,  GD, or  stochastic  gradient  dang  sometimes  call  it SGD  the  very  popular  algorithm, atom  and  some  other related  optimization  measures. But  however,  if  you  are  using  this, you  do  training  typically  you  need  hunger or  thousands  of iterations  before  you  converse. You  can  see  this  will  take  time  say  and the  performance  also  depends  on many  parameters  and  also  the  learning  rate. You  knee  initialization,  depend  on the  base  size  and also  the  optimizer  selection. Which  one  also  become  very  important. Sometimes  the  convergence  is  not always  guarantees, and  Like  we  already mentioned  because  you're dealing  large  scale  products, so  it  requires quite  substantial  computation  resources. Also,  we  know  the  optimization still  very  powerful.  There's  no  doubt. But  sometimes  it  is  not  always the  most  efficient  learning  strategy because  it's  good  most  of  the  time, but  in  some  situations, or  in  some  cases, it  may  not  work  well. Yeah. And  That's  why  our  question  is, can  we  obtain  the  model, the  learning  model  directly without  performing  iterative  optimization. That's  the  main  objective  of what  analytic  learning  is  going  to  do is  will  try  to  compute the  model  parameters  using some  close  form  mathematical  solutions. In  this  case,  there  is  no  need  to  do the  iterative  optimization  many of  the  learning  problem, and  then  we  can  get  the  solution  by linear  algebra  and some  other  optimization  theory. In  this  approach,  there  are  some  benefits. For  example,  it  can  give  you the  deterministic  solution  and it  can  be  significantly  faster  training, but  mainly  for  small  learning  components, and  no  learning  rate  tuning,  to  be  done, and  also  can  get the  improved  reproducability  demic. You  can  reproduce  the  result  easily. And  this  is  particularly  attractive for  small  or  medium scale  real  time  applications. You  don't  need  to  go  into the  so  called  cloud  data  center  to  run  there, get  the  tion,  and  then come  back  and  so  can  do more  real  times  and  edge  device  and  so. Therefore,  instead  of the  very  typical  learning by  repeated  try  and  arrows, our  analytic  learning  here  is  trying to  solve  the  learning  problem  directly. So  you  will  see  the  main  difference, the  highlights  of  this  approach. Here  is  the  able  to  help  you  to compare  this  to  approach iterative  learning  s  the  analytic  learning. We  least  from  training  process, one  is  iterative  update. This  one  is  direct  or  cross  form. Then  some  ancient  learning this  iterative  require, but  here  we  don't  need  and the  initialization  typically  iterative, we  need  to  have  this, but  Usually  for  an  additive  learning, you  will  not  need  this  and also  some  other  deterministic  solution. If  you  are  using  iterative  learning, you  may  not  always  gay,  but  here.  Yeah. We  usually  can  get  it  and also  there  are  some  other  advantages, hyperparameter  tuning, don't  need  for  analytic  learning or  very  sadom  Computational cause  this  quite  high. But  this  one  for  small  learning  component, it  will  be  lower,  but the  problem  become  very  large, may  not  be  so  have to  be  clear  to  be  For  scalability, I  will  say  the iterative  learning  approach  can  do  better. They  give  for  medium  size  or  large  problem, where  the  energy  learning some  limitation  on  is better  for  the  small  problem. The  sensitivity  to  data  noise. If  you  are  ing  it  learning  can  be  high. But  here,  it  can  be  more  robust  and  itty, this  one  usually  lower, but  energetic  learning  can  give  better. And  there  are  some  typical  methods. I  already  mentioned  here GD  gD  back  propagation  and  so  on. Analytic  learning  some  of the  method  will  cover  later, the  square  LD  regulation  and  so  on. These  are  close  classifiers  and  so  on. You  can  look  at  this  comparison. You'll  see  some  of  the  banks this  close  form  learning  In  this  case. We'll  avoid  the  repeated  iterative  updates. And  here  is  also useful  or  important  to  mention. We  do  require  some  mess  tools. We  start  with  line  g  bricks, which  is  very  important because  we  are  still  working on  math  expression,  model, and  so  on  matric  decomposition, least  the  square  estimation  and regularization  or  combx  optimization. These  are  some  of  the  tools required  or  probably  mostly. Next  week,  we  have  a  supplemental  material, we  will  cover  some  of these  tools  in  the  second  lectures  before  we move  on  to  the  analytic  learning  masses from  lecture  on. Some  of  the  example,  as  I  already  mentioned, linear  regulation  rage  regulation, kernel  rage  regulation and  recursive  classification  TR. TR  is  one  of the  method  actually  invented  by  Professor P.  It's  called  total  error  learning. This  is  very  unique  in  this  course. Yeah  you  learn  more. Later.  Therefore,  in  this  case, we  are  trying  to  convert  the  learning, become  solving  a  mathematical  problem. But  of  course,  still  can  be  applied to  some  practical  problems,  you  can  use. This  is  the  main  highlight. Then  we  summarize the  representative analytic  learning  algorithm in  this  table, and  it  also  relate  you  to  the  lecture  here. Each  lecture  will  refer  to the  week  because  every  week  we  do  one lectures  other  than  unless  in the  special  term  every  day  you are  taking  new  lecture, but  the  regular  one  is  every  week. We  have  one  lecture. I  start  the layer  analytic  learning  algorithm, start  from  the  week  three  by  proto. Later  I  mentioned  next  week. First,  we  will  cover  the  topic  of linear  parametric  models  and mainly  the  square  recreation. No  of  the  day  will  be  learning score  function  and  so  on. Follow  one  step  forward analytic  regression  and  classification, for  analytic  math  for  penalized  learning. In  total,  it  will  be  five  weeks, the  main  part  of  this  P  two. In  Lecture  A,  it  will  be  more on  the  performance  evaluations, and  Day  one  it can  serve  for  both  Part  one  and  Part  two. Similarly,  the  Next  week,  the  lecture  tool, the  data  pre  processing, it  also  cover  both  Part  one  and  Part  two. You'll  see  this  will  be the  main  analytic  learning  algorithms. You're  going  to  be  taught  by proto  and  going  to  learn. Let's  look  at  one  simple, phase  recognition,  using  analytic  learning. Actually  protos  expertise  also  doing this  biometrics  or  phase  recognition. I  think  this  is  one  of the  illustrative  simple  examples. You  start  with  a  phase  image, you  can  do  feature extraction  based  on  the  phase, like  the  lane  mark, corner  poise,  and  so  on. A  that  you  can  get the  cross  form  solution  because our  task  here  is  a  simple  one. We  are  just  doing  the  identity recognition  phase  recognition  here. This  is  the  illustration, and  the  highlight  here  is that  this  efficient  cross  form lenning  enable fast  and  accurate  phase  recognition. Then  this  These  are more  like  real  data,  image. Previously,  the  one  is  just  illustration. These  are  some  of  the  samples from  the  CMU  phase  dataset. We  give  credit  into  the  links  here. Datasets  available  and  the  license and  the  creative  common  H. That  mean  this  one,  you can  more  or  less  open  data  set, but  you  need  to  give  the  credit. That's  how  we  highlight  this  here. The  database This  phase  database except  is  a  real  one, not  very  big  likes  neck  and  so  on. So  because  human  phase, you  need  to  take  some  effort  to. In  this  case,  contains 640  phase  images  from  20  subjects. I  mean,  20%.  But  each  person, you  can  contribute  to 32  different  phase  images. Why?  This  is  the  case because  you  same  person, you  can  get  different  pos, you  know,  so  you  can  give new  and  different  images. Then  this  phase  image  of full  resolution  has  12120  pixels, also  256  gray  level  pixels. Of  course,  this  example  here  is  just to  highlight  the  phase  recition. Plays  a  very  crucial  role in  many  applications from  highly  accurate  customs and  also  banking  systems  and  even  nowadays, I  think  NT  some  of the  doors,  they  phase  recognition. And  my  image  is  one  of the  staff  stop  of  fish. Now  I  don't  even  know  the  NTO  pass, can  scan  my  image. Even  sometimes  I  cover  using  the  face  mask. The  system,  in  this  case, quite  good  can  recognize me  by  even  wearing  the  face  mask. So  that  mean  the  feature mainly  in  the  upper  half of  the  face,  the  eyes  or. So  you'll  see  the  a  layer  application  here and  you  can  use analytic  learning  learning  models, going  to  learn  later  to  be  to  do the  phase  recognition  and  we  will  be discussed  in  more  detail by  proto  later  because  he  has  done many  research  papers  and  projects  and  so  on. T  in  the  book, we  also  include  some  application A  example.  This  is  one  of  the  examples. If  you  read  the  books  I  mentioned  early. Then  it's  natural  to see  what  the  avante  is  and  limitation of  the  analytic  learning because  we  won't  claim  this  is the  bat  and  also  it  is  the  worst. Usually  you  learn  something, it  so  some  avants  and  limitation  to  be  fa. Let's  see  what  the  advantages is  you  can  do  a  fast  training and  you  can  get  the  deterministic  solution and  very  few  hyperparameters  to deal  and  has  a  good  interpreity, and  also  computationally  efficiency, but  probably  smaller  or  medium  scale  problem. If  the  problem  very  large, it  may  not  be  so  efficient, so  I  must  mention this  and  naturally  come  with some  limitation applicable  only some  suitable  model  assumptions. That's  why  math  models, math  are  tools  are  still  important and  less  flexible  for some  highly  no  linear  problem. We  have  problems  better more  for  those  linear  or  near  linear. Of  course,  no  linear, you  can  do  the  using  nel  method to  do  some  mapping, which  will  also  be  covered  in the  later  part  nel  approach  there. And  also  some  methods require  the  matrix  inversion. So  in  the  case  of  the  matrix  is  very  large. You  will  maybe  high computation  and  As  I  mentioned  earlier, scalability  still remains  an  active  research  topic. That  means  it  has  some  limitations  here. Need  to  highlights. When  we  talk  about  analytic  learning, I  just  consider  as a  complements  rather  than to  replace  iterative  learning. You're  just  thinking  this is  a  alternative  approach. You  can  select  depending on  the  problem  at  hand. That's  also  very  important  to  mention some  recent  developments in  analytic  learning. And  one  of  the  way  you can  do  is  this  close  form  deep  architectures. Actually,  there  is  already  some  work, not  that  many,  but  already  some  development in  this  direction. I  need  to  highlight this  continuous  analytic  learning or  you  can  call  it  an  continuous  learning. This  is  one  of the  rather  new  branch of  machine  learning  approach. Actually  if  you  all remember  in  the  in  the  book, we  have  four  coors and  T  of  us  teaching this  course  you  already  know, I  introduced  early. The  other  1  second  author  is  not  there because  he  was my  PS  student  several  years  ago. I  think  name. I  think  some  of  you  but those  are  not  new  students, from  the  early  batch. He  did  very  successfully, his  main  research  is  to  apply antic  learning  into  continuous  learning. And  he  graduated,  I  think four  years  ago  and  now  is  associate  professor at  the  South  China  University  of  Technology. And  he  came  back. I  invite  him  I  mean  for the  MSC  program  to deliver  the  special  term  course. And  the  topic  his  course  is  called, if  you  remember,  those  are  new  SPML  students. 01,  I  also  introduced a  special  topic  in  machine  learning. And  the  The  case was  successfully  twice  already last  year  and  this  year. The  student  number  one of  the  larger  class  size,  I  think  30. 40  30  something  last  year,  this  year  30. One  thing  very  important, I  need  to  highlight  because that  in  the  course  here, we  only  talk  about analytic  learning  because  it's more  in  his  course, he  also  discussed analytic  continuous  learning or  you  call  it  continuous  antic  learning. One  student  last  year. Took  his  course  one  year  ago. Then  after  that,  he  did the  projects  with  another probably  not  from  the  professor  yet. Is  working  with  some other  probably  is  a  previous  professor. Then  after  a  few  months  he applied  the  technique  he  learned  from the  special  term  course  and published  a  very  good  journal  paper. It's  called  neuro  network, and  you  should  know  if  you  go  to Google  Neuro  networks  is one  of  the  Goog  journal. Is  also  surprise  that  because  at the  pubs  a  wrote  to  student  called  Jang. I  use  me  learn  and  then  dive into  a  new  paper. We  are  very  surprised. So  you  can  see  there  is some  new  research  direction. Of  course,  not  every  student  will  do, but  at  least  some  good  example. I  highlight  here,  and then  distributed  and  HAI  because  this is  important  because  our  technique here  is  able  for  HAI. As  I  mentioned  here  early, and  it  can  be  applied to  large  scale  analytic  optimization. But  this  need  more  work. There  are  always  some other  people  trying  to  walk  into  that. Then  explain  analytic  model. This  is  another  new  direction. And  finally,  because  you  can combine  hybrid analytic  and  iterative  learning. Actually,  the Professor  T  I  mentioned  earlier, he  is  quite  good  because he  know  both  deep  learning, the  new  model  and  the  analytic. The  better  way  is  to  combine  both, you  have  the  so  called  base  model, as  the  first  part,  and  then  up  that, you  can  add  another modular  analytic  learning, and  then  that  give  better  result. I  should  say  over  three  or  four  years, it  publish  already  probably 30  AI  conference  or  journal  paper. Mostly  just  in this  continued  analytic  learning. Yeah. This  is  one  very important  message  to  highlight. And  to  summarize  this  analytic  learning of  course,  just  summary, not  in  detail,  and  also  to  pave  way, transition  to  the  ensemble  learning. This  is  the  message  I  would  like  to mention  here.  Machine  learning  here. We  more  familiar. To  using  iterative  optimization, but  it's  not  that  limited  to  that, you  can  have  other  ways like  what  we  are going  to  teach  analytic  learning. Then  if  you  are  using  closed  form  learning, you  can  provide  more  efficient  alternative comparing  to  iterative  optimization. Etic  learning  is  also  mathematically elegant  and  computationally  attractive, may  not  be  always  efficient, but  least  attractive  and. To  move  on, the  next  major  parody here  will  be  ensemble  learning. The  main  idea  here  is ensemble  learning  is  So  far, we  always  talked  about  one learner  one  model  and  so  on. But  the  question  here  is, if  you  have  multiple  learners? Can  you  perform  better  than  a  single  learner? That  means  sample,  of  course, just  based  on  the  word. Here  semble  learning, the  keyword  is  on  sample. Similarly,  the  early  one analytic  learning  is  analytic. We  want  to  see  what  this  part  can  contribute. Therefore,  the  message  here  is  indeed, I  can  combine  several  machine  learning  equim to  try  to  do  it  in  a  better  way. Of  course,  you  cannot simply  combine  you  need  to  find  some  ways to  efficiently  combine  them  and  remember, machine  learning  is  we  want  to see  some  performance  improvement. A  is  to  do  that.  But  because the  main  starting  per  year  is  we know  even  so  far currently  there  is  always  one  algorithm, you  can  do  always  better  for all  the  datasets  compared  to  to  others. So  even  you  publish  a  paper, usually,  you  need  to compare  with  different  methods. If  you  claim  you  are  always  the  best, then  some  reviewer  may  even  question  you. Usually,  if  you  can  do  better, then  probably  seven  out  of ten  is  already  good  enough. That's  the  main  idea  here, I  it's  true  that  some  learning  models, it  can  perform  better  for  some  dataset, but  not  so  good  for  others. Therefore,  the  idea  here is  we  can  try  to  combine several  learning  models  in this  case  to  obtain  higher  accuracy, but  this  is  always  one  of the  main  objectives  of  machine  learning  going to  do  is  better  accuracy  and better  lobes also  and  improve  the  generalization. These  are  the  three  of the  main  the  ensemble  learning going  to  do  by  rather  than  ging  on  one  model. This  is  what  we are  going  to  discuss about  on  symbol  learning. It's  in  in  Chinese,  you  say  Sang. The,  there's  very  common  people. You  combine  together,  the  wisdom, it  can  be  doing  better than  very  wise  ban  something  like  that. You'll  see  the  messes  here. Of  course, you  need  to  combine  constructively. No  say  fighting  with  each other  and  defeat  the  purpose. Therefore,  if  we  want  to  see the  definition early  on  for  analytic  learning. We  focus  on  analytic and  then  define  this  keywords. Here,  we  will  just  say  on  semble  learning, it  could  be  one, can  train  on  multiple  learner. The  key  match  is  not just  one  learner,  several  this. Then  combine  their  prediction  or the  outcomes  combine  together and  produce  a  final  decision, not  based  on  one,  but  based  on  combination. How  to  combine.  That's  the  techniques, several  ways  to  do  this. That's  why  this  overall  system  because your  sample  bend  together just  like  in  the  production  light, you're  doing  this  sample. This  is  what  we  call  an  sample. And  the  key  observation  here  is the  whole  can  be  better  than  individual  part. This  is  what  I  also  mentioned  earlier. You  can  combine  the  wisdom  of several  people  other  than relying  on  one  to  make  decision. Y,  semble  learning  will  work. I  has  three  ingredients  here. One  is  your  knee, some  kind  of  accurate  learner because  you  don't  get  some  learner, which  is  not  good  at  you select  the  reasonable  one. Then  this  learner,  the  the  diverse. Let  me  not  always  along  the  line. Now,  I  think  you  all  know  the  ND emphasize  even  for students  with  one  diversity. So  not  just  relying  on  one, probably  one  ion. So  open  up. For  both  PSD  and  now  also  MSC, we  have  some  students from  different  countries, then  they  can  get some  scholarship  based on  divers  diversities  requirements. Same  here  is  a  diversity  so  that  you can  contribute  better  better to  make  Googles  of  the  difference. Of  course,  you  also  need  to  find an  effective  combination  strategies. Let's  look  at  the  very  simple  example  here. I  assume  we  have  some  input  sample. You  you  already  know  some  of  the  classifier, or  you  are  going  to  learn  later. This  tree,  this  is  one  of  them. If  this  input  sample, this  classify  give  you  the  outcome, is  the  Based  on  this  model, decide  this  is,  SVM, for  example,  give  you  this  po  is  the  dog. Then  you  very  hard  to decide  based  on  this  tool  is  different. But  however,  now  if  you apply  another  one  neuro  network, which  give  the  outcome  also. So  on  several  here  is  now  one  of the  very  simple  one  is  that  you  do this  majority  voting  because  the  21. Of  course,  this  is  apply  everywhere. You  know,  U  is  going  to  elect the  next  president  or any  other  election even  you  elect  in  Singapore, you're  voting  for  some  MPs, member  of  the  parliament,  and  so  on. There's  always  based  on majority  voting,  in  this  case, you  have  two  s  one, then  the  final  decision  is  a  k.  This  is one  very  simple  idea  about  using  this. Of  course,  this  is  the  symbols  one, but  it  does  work  in this  case  rather  than relying  on  one  or  even  relying  on  two, you  cannot  make  the  decision. You  have  majority, two  ver  one  of  course  in  this  case. You  can  do  a  better  job. Therefore,  you  can  see this  successful  ensemble  learning, you'll  require  both  accuracy  and  diversity. If  the  learner  there. I  always  put  the  same  one, but  just  by  changing slightly  the  sum  of  the  parameter, then  you  may  give  you  the  same  result. You  need  diversity. The  classifier  are  quite different  from  each  other. That's  how  it  works. Then  style  is  a  very  basic  sample  strategies. These  are  the  basic  one. You  can  use  voting, as  I  already  mentioned, majority  decision,  or  averaging. That  will  take  the  average  like yesterday  evening  I'm  teaching another  case  statistical  signal  processing. One  of  the  common  way  there, just  take  the  sample  means  is  averaging, tach  Picularly, we  are  taking  some  numerical  output, not  the  category,  and  averaging  is  quite Quite  effective  and  can do  more  by  weighted  combination. So  because  different  liner the  contribute  with  different  ways. I  mean,  you  fear  this  liner,  is  better. You  can  put  the  higher  weight  thing. Those  are  probably  not  that  good. You  give  smaller  weight. These  are  very  simple  one, basic  and  can  have  some  more  major  one, which  will  be  discussed by  P  Simon  L.  For  example, you  can  have  two  very  popular  one, which  is  backing  and  boosting. Here  this  table,  illustrate  how  it  works. Basically,  you  can  see bagging  is  both  of  them, you  have  multiple  learner. But  this  one, the  begging  is  you're doing  in  parallel  training. You'll  train  each  of  them, then  you'll  try  to  combine  them  together. The  main  purpose  here  is  to  reduce  the  a  bar, that  smaller  alan  you  give  you more  reliable  result,  more  past. On  that  end,  the  boosting the  training  is  a  sequential  training. Instead  of  using  this  liner, the  train  per,  you'll  do  it  sequentially. But  that  you'll  use  a  liar  one  to  do, give  some  results  and  that  you use  liner  two  to  improve  and  so  on. It  sequential  doing. But  this  linger, they  are  also  in  this  case, they  become  dependent  linger  because the  output  of  the  liner  one  is given  as  input  for  liner  two  and  so  on. So  they  are  somewhat  related  sequential. The  main  purpose  here is  trying  to  reduce  the  bias, rather  than  beer  because Bias  is  one  of  the  important  property. You  want  to  make  the  end  very close  to  the  true  value  or  the  true  outcome. Alien  is  try  to  reduce  the  valuation. You  can  see  the  main  characteristic, but  this  is  higher  predictive  accuracy. Try  to  achieve  lower  bias, but  this  one  is  reduced  reduced  the  ban. Become  less  sensitive  to noise  and  also  overfitting. See  here  even  for  the  tool, they  are  both  on  sample  strategy, but  they  are  different. You  can't  say  which  one  is  better depending  your  needs,  your  objective. Yeah.  Then  of  course  the detail  and  more  advance  method. We  won't  discuss  here, but  it  will  be  covered by  Pol  in  more  detail  from  this  table. Gain  C  style  is  begging,  boosting, see  from  lecture  nine, and  then  of  the  day  the  classical, the  and  some  of  the  popular  one  random  40s. A,  gradient  boosting  and  updated these  two  vans  boosting  algorithm is  very  useful  XG  polls, light  GPM,  and  so  on. These  are  very  important. Then  there  is  one  week  one  lecture devolved  to  reinforcement  learning with  ensemble  method. This  is  you  will introduce  reinforcement  Ning, first,  then  combine  with  sample.  This  is  one. Finally,  you  will  give the  industry  application  to  on  sample  model. That's  in  the  last  lecture. Similar  to  the  analytic  learning, we  can  talk  about  the  bounties and  limitations  of  this  on  sample  learning. The  bunts,  give  higher  prediction  accuracy. Then  you  can  improve  robustness. Also  reduce  overfitting. Ing  the  model. Overfitting  is  one  of  the  problem, and  better  handling  or  complex  problem. Can  beast  the  flexibility  also, but  you  can  choose  different  samples, and  different  numbers  of  learners  and  so  on. And  I  also  come  with some  limitation  as  as  Yoga. Comparing  you're  using  just  one  learner  is higher  computation  cost  if you  compare  with  one. But  of  course,  if  you're considering  comparing  to  the  very  big  model because  this  semble  learning  currently mainly  focus  on small  or  medium  sized  problem. Also,  it  can  be  extended  to  large  scale  one. Then  if  you  add  more  learners, then  it  can  reduce the  interpretability comparing  to  a  single  one also  and  can  lead to  more  complex  model  management, and  Also  sometimes  you diminishing  returns  important  as  I  mentioned, it  depends  on  diversity. You  had  to  to use  different  learner  to  combine. Otherwise,  it's  not  so  effective. So  the  matches  here, the  highlights  using  semble  learning can  improve  prediction  performance. This  saber  learning  tend to  be  used  more  in  doing the  prediction  like later  doctor  Lew  highlight  risk  prediction, in  the  finance,  and  so  by combining  different  multiple  learner, but  the  expensive increased  computational  complexity and  sometimes  can  reduce  interpretability. We  also  want  to  see  what's the  recent  developments  in ensemble  learning  because  you can  extend  the  deep  ensemble  learning. This  is  attractive. Also  nowadays, foundation  models are  becoming  popular,  important, you  can  apply  combine sample  methods  to  see that  they  can  get  better, distributed  sample  learning,  you can  deploy  different  plays, different  part  network  and  combine  together. And  also  sample  reinforcement  learning, as  you  can  see  one  of  the  lecture  on this  and  explain  sample  models to  see  whether  you  can  combine  more, but  still  keep  the  interpretability. That's  one  of  the  highlight recent  developments in  this  area  to  work  on. So  you  can  see  on  semble  learning  here  still remains  one  of the  most  successful  and  active  research  area in  machine  learning. Actually  in  some  financial  sector, people  still  prefer the  use  on  semble  learning because  they  still  resistant maybe  using  deep  learning  or  LLM because  of  this  interpretability. To  try  to  be  able  to  explain  this. And  here  is  a  very  simple  application in  the  credit  as assessment  using  on  sample  learning. I  think  similar  to early  composition  is  just  illustrative. If  you  have  some  applicant  data, you  are  applying  for  some  credit. For  example,  you  apply  credit  card  and the  bank  or  some  financial  institute, they  need  to  assess  you. Therefore,  you  have  some  input to  consider  ongoing  in  detail. These  are  some  of  the  data  input  you  have. Then  from  there,  you  can  use. For  example,  you  can  use  this Model,  a  multi  based  learner using  decision  to decide  whether  this  is high  risk  or  this  is  a  low  risk, this  is  a  gain  high  ras,  et  so. Then  using  that  you're now  using  on  sample  combinations. There  are  several  ways as  I  mentioned  early  boating abridging  or  even  more  advantage  to  to  do. Then  that  you  can  get aggregate  prediction  by  combining this  and  with  this, give  you  a  better  idea  to  see whether  the  input  applicant fall  into  low  risk. Then  you  will  prove  high  risk, you  will  review  again,  or  directly  reject. This  is  one  of  the  very  efficient  way. To  combining  multiple  liner, then  you  can  improve the  prediction  reliability  and  robustness. More  examples,  as  I  already  mentioned, will  be  cover  and  provided  by pool  at  near  the  end  of  the  east  part. Here,  they  just  give  The  summary  of  some  of the  application  of  the  two  part  analytic  and semble  learning  depending on  the  application  area. For  example,  some  of  the  topic  maybe  better. As  I  mentioned,  the  phase  of the  chion  you  can  use  algytic  learning. On  garden,  you're  doing  medical  diagnosis because  doctors  are  more  costs.  Is  better. If  you  are  using  on  sample  learning  for  this. Similarly  for  the  financial  risk  assessment, we  just  mentioned,  is  also  better. You  are  using  on  sample  learning like  advance  method  XG  boost  or  GPM. And  industry  inspection because  the  different  tasks, different  requirements  very  diverse. Typically,  in  this  case, you  can  combine both  analytic  and  sample  learning and  the  normal  drying, you  can  use  sample  learning  because it  requires  a  more  large  data  model, and  in the  intelligent  manufacturing  and  Again, this  is  more  diverse  problem. You  can  again  again combine  these  two  approach. Therefore,  the  message  here  is no  single  base  lining  algorithm for  all  the  problem. You  will  need  to  see  which  one  or which  combination  give  you  the  better. This  again  coming  back I  think  just  very  briefly for  some  future  directions in  machine  learning, or  you  can  just  probably  let  know the  future  direction  so  that  you  are aware  of  the  emerging  research  trends and  efficient  learn. You  can  do  fast  scalable  learning. Explainable  AI  continuous  learning, as  I  already mentioned  earlier,  hybrid  learning, you  can  combine  two  and  so  therefore, you  can  see  machine  learning  here  is  continue to  evolve  towards  more  efficient, intelligent  and  trust  worth  system. This  page  give  you  some  of  overall  picture  or the  cose  romp  of  different  lectures. Now  I  think  today  I  mo  lecture  one. This  is  a  general  introduction. It's  already  seeing  it. Then  next  week  we  will  talk about  data  pre  processing, including  some  math background  and  supplemental. This  two  serve  for both  part  and  analytic  learning. Six  we  will  be  taught  by  proto. The  main  one  will  be  three  to  seven. We  also  remember  we have  online  quiz  in  class. You  will  take  of  the  lecture  hours. This  one  cover  several anergic  learning  methods and  A  will  be the  performance  evaluation  and  influence. I  just  not  going into  deep,  but  some  introduction. Then  W  nine  to  12, different  methods  from  sample  learning. Then  lecture  13. Initially,  pro  pro  you will  couple  the  application for  sample  learning, but  I  asked  him  whether  he  can  also  maybe include  one  example  in analytic  learning  in  industry. We'll  see  how  he  can  do. Therefore,  can  see  this  course stabs  common  data  foundation, so  on  by  by starting  to  complimentary  learning pal  dyes  in  depth  and  Also  finally  try to  integrate  them  in some  real  industry  application. This  is  highlights  of what  you  learn  this  course. We  already  mentioned  previously, then  we  to  learn  principle, analytic  learning  and  also the  same  for  ensemble  learning. Then  compare different  machine  learning  paradigms and  try  to  select some  suitable  learning  measures for  practical  application, and  also  try  to  see  what  we  can do  for  the  recent  development because  bobbly  select  one  or  two  topics if  you  are  keying  in further  learning  and  doing some  research  like  what  I for  some  previous  students. And  Therefore,  the  emphasis  here  is  trying  to understand  the  principle  be  high rather  than  just  memorizing  some  algorithm. These  are  the  key  takeaways. I  think  you  already  already  learn  well. So  far.  Yeah.  Machine  learning, I  think  we  don't  need  to  repeat  here. Aaltic  learning  man  is  a  close  form  solution. This  al  lending  is  trying  to improve  lowpasiti  by  combining multiple  learner  and also  different  learning  algorithm, paradigms  are  suitable for  different  applications. This  is  very  important. Therefore,  this  course  focus on  both  fundamental  principles, and  also  some  practical  mesa and  good  to  know  the  strengths  and limitation  of  different  learning po  dyes  in  order to  efficiently  debate  and use  the  intelligence  system. T,  this  is  a  quick  preview of  the  lecture  two, which  is  next  week,  also  by  B. Is  data  pre  processing  and  cover  what  data, data  type,  ester  metric preprocessing  meso  and  so  on. Because  Data  quality,  is  very  important. If  you  have  high  data  quality, then  you  can  do  a  better  machine  lining. Don't  overlook  the  data  quality. B  very  common  saying  if  you  are  garbaging, then  maybe  garbage  out. You  need  to  at  clear  the  data, make  the  data  at  a  acceptable. Yeah,  I  think  that's  all. Thank  you  for  Any  questions, please  me  or  let  us  know.  Thank  you. I'll  see  you  next  week. Hey,  you.  Na,  trying  to  box. One,  two.  One,  two,  one,  two. Mic.  Do  we  upside  down  hold  your  hear  me. I  don't  do  we  make  to  break  so  You drove  the  blood  I don't  do  we  make  to  break  so. I  go  to  stay You  go  to  see  tonight  to  see  s night s d  d and  shine  Just. Here  you  go. A delay D  colors. So  you  put  on  the  two. Light  he. And  it's  time  to As  you  shares  go. Every  every  time. Every  day Oh. 5555 tees
