That  for  the  point  processing, it  must  be  non  linear  processing. Otherwise,  it  will  not  make  much  sens. Now,  today  we  will  study the  processing  the  outputs. Not  only  depends  on  a  single  p  input, but  depends  on  a  set  of  the  pixels. For  such  kind  of  the  processing, the  processing  can  be  linear and  it  can  be  non  linear. Today  we  will  first  introduce a  linear  processing. Now,  for  menial  processing, we  know  all  linear  processing. We  can  always  use the  SI  system  to describe  such  kind  of  the  processing. In  the  I  system, all  output  is  a  convolution  between  input  and the  impulse  response  of the  field  of  the  system. Don't  forget,  impulse  response is  also  a  image. It's  a  convolution  of  the  two  image. And  the  impulse  response  is the  output  of  the  system. Suppose  the  input  is  a  impulse. Okay,  so  we  have  started the  full  year  transform. We  know  the  fue  transform has  a  very  important  property. It's  called  convolution  property. So  Cvolution  in  the  spatial  domain, corresponding  to  multiplication in  the  frequent  domain, where  multiplication  is  much more  simpler  than  the  convolution. This  is  why  we  usually design  SI  filter  in  the  frequent  domain, not  in  the  spatial  domain. But  for  the  implementation,  usually, we  will  do  the  filter  process in  the  spatial  domain. In  the  spatial  domain, the  system  is  a  convolution to  get  the  output. Don't  forget  the  original  definition  of the  convolution  and  don't discard  by  this  infinity. If  the  filter  mask  is a  f  size  outside  of  the  filter  mask, we  suppose  H  zero, so  we  can  immediately simplify  this  submission  limit into  only  within  the  filter  mask. Right?  From  this  comvolution, it  is  very  important to  understand  the  physical  meaning. Here,  this  sentence  show how  to  compute  the  comvolution. Basically,  this  convolution  is  a  weighted  sum of  the  input  pixels  within  the  field  window. This  mathematic  expression  clearly shows  that  for  the  convolution, the  output  pixel  is  equals to  input  pixel  weighted  sum. Within  the  filter  window, the  output  is  at the  position  of  the  center  of  this  window. A  center  within  this  mask. Well  the,  the  weight  of  the  pixel is  the  impulse  spoons or  the  filter  mask  coefficient. This  is  pretty  clear  so  that  if  we understand  this  meaning  of  the  convolution, we  can  very  fast  need  to compute  the  convolution  result given  filter  mask  or given  a  impulse  response. Right?  It  is  not  necessary. We  must  go  through  the  mathematic  definition to  compute  this  one  by  one. Sometimes  it  could  be  tedious, but  if  we  understand, the  convolution  process  is just  the  weakest  sum  of the  input  pixes  within  the  filter  mask. That's  all.  We  are  weights. It's  this  filter  coefficient. To  understand,  this  one  is  very important  because  Mater  if we  study  more  complex  ss such  as  a  convolution  or  neon  network, even  the  traditional  neural  network, even  the  transformer. All  of  them  will  perform some  kind  of  the  weighted  sum, wet  summation  of  the  input. This  is  very  important. So  the  convolution  is just  wet  summation  of the  input  pixels,  right? Okay.  Now,  as  I  mentioned  that, to  design  the  filter, we  to  design  SI  filter. We  usually  design  it  in  the  fequin  storming. For  example,  here,  if  we  want  to smooth  the  image  to  do  some  kind of  to  design  the  filter  to blow  the  image  or  to  suppress  the  noise or  somehow  to  get a  so  called  weak  age  filter or  no  pus  filters. We  can  design  such  a  filter very  well  in  the  fe  que  storming. Because  we  call  this  system  a  filter, what  means  the  filter? The  filter  means  somehow  we  have  filter, we  net  some  input  pass  through  the  filter, we  stop  some  other  input. This  is  some  of  the  filter. Yeah.  Then  in  the  Finkst  mean, we  can  clearly  design what  we  want  to  achieve. For  example,  if  we  want  to design  a  no  pass  filter, then  we  design  our  filter  in  the  fnqust  mean the  That  means  we  design  our  filter, it  is  a  frequency  sponse  or  the  f a  transform  of  the impulse  sponse  of  the  filter. It  is  a  one  within the  no  frequency  range and  zero  for  high  frequency. This  can  so  if the  frequency  is  smaller than  some  value,  it  is  one, otherwise  it  is  zero  where  this  d  is the  U  square  plus  v  square  e form  a  circle  in  the  frequent  storming. Now,  we  design  such  a  filter  in the  fc  will  mean  one  and  zero clearly  show  that  for all  frequency  within  this  range, the  input  will  pass through  to  the  output  because the  frequency  spoons  of  the  filter is  one  multiplied  by  input  to  get  the  output. Output  is  the  same  as  the  input. Input  will  pass  through  the  filter,  and  zero, that  means  the  filter will  stop  such  component if  the  input  frequency is  larger  than  this  value. Because  zero  multiply  any  input, the  output  is  zero, so  we  can  design  such  kind  of  filter. Now,  graphically,  we  can  show, we  can  plot  this  filter, fink  spans  filter  in  the  fink  storming  in three  D  plot  in  terms  of  use  the  image  plot. The  three  D  plot  indicates  the  height  is  of one  and  zero  in  the  U  plane. And  if  we  use  the  image  plot, we  use  the  white  pixer indicate  the  value  is  one, the  black  pixer  indicates  the  value  is  zero, so  they  are  equivalent. We  can  even  plot  this  one in  one  D  projection. This  is  a  three  D  but  if  we  project  to  two  D, then  somehow  the  value  is a  one  D  so  it  will  be  a  ackgle. Now,  in  the  frequency  mean, usually  for  the  image, we  put  the  center  as  the  zeal  frequency. So  the  frequency  is from  negative  value  to  the  positive  value, where  the  center  is  the  zeal  frequency. Then  what  is  the  range  of  this  U  and  V? As  I  mentioned  that,  if  we design  our  filter  is  for  digital  image. The  image  is  discrete. The  filter  is  also  discrete. The  frequency  has  only  range  of  one. Here,  we  use  a  negative  frequency. Then  we  usually  plot  this  filter  in the  frequency  from  0.5  from  -0.5  to  0.5. The  range  is  one.  Right  from  -0.5  to  0.5. That  the  center  will  be  zero. Around  the  center  is  low  frequency. Far  away  from  the  center  is  a  high  frequency. L  at  week,  I  already  explained why  for  digital  sing  the  fue  transform, the  frequency  range  is  only  one. In  fact,  using  we  plot  it  from  -0.5  to  0.5. Now,  but  if  we  compute  the  DFT, if  we  make  the  frequency  is  also  digital, then  we  need  to  divide  by the  size  of  the  image  so  that the  size  of  the  frequency will  be  same  as  the  image  size. Then  it  will  not  from  0.5  to  05. From  the  half  of  the  minus  half of  the  image  size  to the  half  of  the  image  size. So  the  whole  size is  the  same  as  the  image  size. I  already  explained  last  week, this  DFT  is  just  sampling  the  frequency. The  U  and  the  original  is  a  continuous  value. Range  is  one.  We  use  n  point  to  sample it  is  the  size  of the  single  or  size  of  the  image. That  will  me  in  the  deplion, we  need  divided  by  n  divided  by. Suppose  the  size  of  the  image  is  by  n,  right? Anyway,  we  understand  that  in  this  plot, the  center  is  zero  frequency. Okay,  all  me  the  center  is  a  no  frequency. This  is  why  if  we  design  a  no  ps  filter, it  will  show  in  such  kind  of the  shape,  one  and  zero. The  center  around  the  center  is  the  one. Such  kind  of  filter  is  idea,  no  ps  filter. It  is  really  it  is  ideal  because we  use  the  value  of the  one  to  pass the  input  frequent  component  to  the  output. We  use  the  zero  to  fully stop  the  high  frequency component  of  the  input. It  will  not  appear  in  the  output. It  is  ideally  no  puss  filter. Now,  no  puss  f  nos  means  smooth  means some  of  the  age  of  the  input pixels,  or  waged  verage. I  will  smooth  the  input  image into  to  the  output  the  image. Now,  for  such  of  the  idea no  pass  filter  in  the  practice, it  will  have  the  problem. Of  course,  if  your  guys come  from  a  single  processing  area, you  should  know  that  the  idea  filter somehow  cannot  work  in  the  practice. Of  course,  how  to  understand  that. We  can  understand  that  if  we  design the  filter  is  idea  is  one to  pass  through  Z  fully  stop  it. Then  in  the  frank  mean  this  function has  sharp  transition  from  z  to  one. Okay,  this  sharp  transition is  a  very  high  frequency. It  suddenly  change  from  the  minimal  value  to that  maximal  value  of the  whole  this  function. Such  a  very  high  frequency, then  it's  inverse  we make  the  impulse  bond will  be  infinity  non  zero. That  means  in  the  spatial  one, it  is  inverse  transform of  this  k  tangle  function. The  spatial  filter  will  be  a  sync  function. This  sync  function  will  be non  zero  value  from  minus  y  to  infinity. This  is  the  practice  is  impossible, so  we  can  only  use a  small  window,  a  finite  size. This  will  cause  that  filter is  not  ideal  no  pass  filter. But  in  fact,  we  have  a  large  reason  to  see why  we  should  not  use this  so  called  idea,  no  path  filter. Here  reasons  for  example  here. This  show  we  design  a  filter. In  the  frequdj  within the  radius  of  the  five  is  one. All  other  zero. This  is  an  path  filter. In  the  fnquor  mean. So  then  the  filter coefficient  All  the  filter in  the  spatial  domain will  be  a  sinc  function, two  dimensional  sync  funion. I  will  show  here,  this is  the  two  dimensional  sinc  function. This  is  one  dimensional.  We  plot  this  one. Here,  we  use  the  brightening  indicate this  height  value  of  the  height. Two  dimensional,  the  sinc  function, which  is  the  inverse  of  the  ck  tank  function. A  inverse  fear  transform of  such  kind  of  function, equ  comes  to  this  function. Now,  from  here,  we  can  see the  sinc  function  is  such  kind  of  the  shape. Then  if  the  input  image  is  just  one  impasse, one  impasse  one  pixel  is  one,  all  other  zero. Then  what  is  the  output? If  we  apply  such  of  the  passe  filter, the  impasse  spun  here.  What  is  the  output? The  output  is  the  impasse  bonds because  the  input  is  just  one  impasse. Impasse  conv  is  function  is  this  function. This  is  the  output  image for  input  is  a  impasse. Now,  from  here,  we  can  see  we have  some  kind  of  the  problem. If  the  input  image  is  just  one  impasse. It  is  suddenly  change  from all  zero  to  one  at  one  pixels. We  want  to  smooth  this  image. Then  we  should  expect  after  we  smooth  it, it  will  become  to  a  smooth  bro. But  if  we  use  the  idea  no  pus filter  the  output  will show  such  of  the  shape. Besides  it  converts a  imp  single  pixel  into  a  brow. I  will  produce  many  rings. This  dark,  this  bright caused  by  this  negative  part and  a  positive  wp. I  will  produce  many  rings. All  these  rings  is  not  a  structure  of the  original  input  image  because  we  only want  to  smooth  a  single  impulse  into a  smooth  change  from  z to  and  then  smoothly  change  to  zero. But  in  fact,  it  will  produce  such  rings. Now,  this  example  show  if the  input  has  five  pixels,  five  impulse. Then  this  five  impulse  convolve  with this  impulse  response  of the  idea  no  p  f  becomes  to  here. Or  this  rings  will  add together  to  generate  this  output  image. This  idea  pus  for  will generate  some  undesirable  structures. It  will  create  some  structures, not  in  the  input  image. This  structure  is  artificial  one, is  somehow  not real  image  structure  in  the  input. This  is  undesirable. In  the  practice,  we  should  not use  the  idea  no  pass  filter. Here  show  real  example  to  show the  problem  to  apply  the  idea  no  pass  filter. Now,  for  example  here,  this is  the  original  image. If  we  design  the  filter is  idea  no  p  filter  one  and  zero, with  different  cut  off  frequency. Use  this  different  circles, then  generate  such  kind  of  the  output  image. The  image  will  be  smoothed. But  because  we  use  the  ideal  no  pas  filter, it  will  generate  a  lot  of the  new  structures  never happen  in  the  input  image. It  will  show  here. This  will  cause  by  all  the  rings  of the  sink  functions  come from  the  inverse  fats form  of  the  k  tangle  function. This  is  undesirable,  right? To  solve  this  problem,  in  the  practice, we  will  design  our  filter is  not  sharply  transit  1-0. We  design  our  f,  use  gain  functions. Gain  functions,  the  value  will  change smoothly  from  maximum  value  into  zero. This  is  a  shape  of  the  gain  functions. Such  kind  of  the  smoothly  transit from  one  value  to  the  minimum  value. Image  pro  is  shown  here. It  will  not  equal, not  generate  the  artificial  structure in  the  output  the  image. Because  if  we  design  or  filter, use  a  gaussian  function, not  a  k  tank  function  in  the  frequent  mean. The  inverse  fear  transform is  also  a  gal  function. A  glen  function  has  a  very  nice  property. A  calc  function  is  fully  transform  is  a  gal. A  galcan  function  of  the  fue  transform, inward  fe  transform  is  also  a  galcan  funtion. A  gain  function,  we  are  not  create the  additional  rings  around  the  center  bod. This  will  solve  this  problem,  for  example. For  now,  this  examples if  we  design  then  pass  filter, use  the  gaussian  function, not  to  use  the  reck tangle  function  one  and  zero, we  use  the  gaussian  function. This  is  a  smoothing  result  by  g  pass  filter. We  can  show  that  the  image  is  smoot  blurred, but  we  don't  have any  artificial  structure  created in  the  output  the  image. Here  show  the  difference. This  is  why  the  guin  function  is  very  nice. In  the  practice,  we  always  use  a  no  paster. No  use  idea  no  pop  one  and  zero. Now  here  show a  further  example  of  the  smooph. We  are  not  correct.  I  just blur  the  image  smooth  image. We  are  not  generate additional  extra  structures in  the  output  image. This  is  also  show  such  of  the  effect. After  we  study  the  null  passpor is  very  easy  to  study  the  high  passphaor, because  we  first  start from  the  idea  high  pospheor. Because  idea  poster  is  one  and  zero. The  high  poshor, then  of  course,  is  zero  and  one. We  want  to  stop  the  frequency  component, so  we  did  the  value  is  zero  for  no  frequency, where  value  is  one  for  high  frequency. This  is  a  high  passpor  Such  the  high  posphe, we  can  very  easily  get,  is just  one  minus  the  frequency  spoons of  the  passpor. If  we  have  studies, no  passpor  then  the  high  passpor is  just  one  minus  nu  path  for. Then  we  get  a  high  pasaor. Graphically,  this  show  high  passpor is  zero  for  no  frequency, one  for  high  frequency. Now,  same  as  the  pop. For  high  passphter,  we  should  also  use the  smoothing  transition  between the  pass  bent  and  the  stop  bent. We  should  not  use  the  idea  one. We  should  use  a  high  posh  gazing  high  pope. From  the  minimum  value  to  the  maximum  value. This  is  the  fina  bond  of the  g  high  posphe,  use  different  broad. Okay.  Now,  here,  this example  we  compile  the  high  pasha. If  we  use  the  ideal  high  poshaa and  use  the  gausin  hypophaa, what  is  the  difference? Now,  first  of  all,  because  we design  we  apply  a  high  passph to  this  input  image. High  pasha  will  remove the  no  frequency  component. A  constant  region  is a  no  frequency,  for  whatever  value, even  constant  bright  value  or  bark  value, all  are  constant,  the  frequency  is  zero. As  a  result,  the  output  of  the  high  pospha, we  just  expect  the  age. Because  in  this  area, constant  area,  even  if  it's  a  bright  here, this  constant  area  even  is  a  dark, but  both  will  produce output  is  dark,  is  almost  zero. Okay,  because  this  one in  the  input  is  a  low  frequency  component, in  the  output  is  zero. Only  at  the  age, it  suddenly  changed  the  venue. This  is  a  high  frequency. The  output  of  the  hypopha  will  be  none  zero. The  hypopha  will  extract  the  age  pattern, will  remove  the  constant  region, or  becomes  to  zero.  Again. Now,  if  we  compare the  idea  hyposphea  and  gaucin  hyposphea, we  can  see  that  for  this  idea  hypospha, it  will  create  some  additional  structure here  here  and  even  some  dought  in  this  one. But  if  we  use  the  gu  hyposph, there's  no  additional  structure created  by  the  theater. This  comparison  between  the  idea  hyposph and  the  gain  hyposphe. Of  course,  Gausi  hypopha  is just  one  minus  gus  pain. Then  we  get  Causing  hypospa. Now,  for  image  processing, if  we  want  to  generate  output  image, it  is  good  for  our  human  eyes. If  we  just  apply  the  high  pass  filter, it  will  cause  the  problem  because all  no  frequency  components  are  removed. So  we  don't  know  in  the  input  image, it  is  a  bright  constant  or dark  constant  because  all  becomes  zero. In  the  practice,  if  we  want to  enhance  the  image  age, but  also  keep  some  other  constant  region, then  we  can  combine the  high  pass  filter  and  the  original  image. This  is  another  filter called  high  boost  filter. The  deflation  is  just  the original  the  input  image multiplied  by  a  constant  A. This  A  is  larger  than  one, then  minus  no  pass  filter  output to  generate  the  final  output. Now,  if  A  is  larger  than  one, we  can  very  easily  convert this  one  into  this  form. It  is  car  to  show  that this  boost  filter  is  the  in  input  image. Of  course,  multiplied  by  constant we're  not  changing  the  information. The  input  image  plus the  high  pass  filter  output. Because  high  pospilter,  we gauge  the  age  information. If  some  with  the  original  image, then  the  age  will  be  enhanced. Where  other  information  will keep  same  as  the  input. Here,  show  examples  for such  kind  of  the  image, we  use  a  high  pass  filter  and then  some  with  this  input  image, then  produce  this  one,  this  one, we  will  see  that  the  H  will  be  sharper  than the  original  one  will  be near  than  the  original  input  image. Of  course  here  we  will  also show  some  combination  of this  technique  such  as use  this  high  boost  field, and  then  after  that, we  apply  the  histogram  equalization. Here  histogram  equalization  is much  more  effective. Because  it  equalize  the  histogram. So  that  for  this  no  contrast  part, so  long  as  it  has  a  contrast has  some  difference, it  will  amplify  this  difference. Because  this  part  and  this  part take  a  large  area  in  this  whole  image. After  the  Hc  equalization, the  small  difference  in this  part  will  become  too  large  difference, the  pas  will  be  ans. This  again  to  show some  examples  to  combine  different  filter and  Hc  equalization  gag this  output  image  from  this  input  image. We  very  quickly  go  through  this  part because  we  already  study  the  AI  system. Convolution  and  the  fa  transform convolution  in  the  spatial  domain in  the  fa  transform, it  is  a  multiplication. We  already  studied  that. Here,  we  just  very  quickly go  through  how  to  apply this  AI  system  into  the  filter to  design  the  no  pass  filter and  high  pass  filter. We  can  also  design  such  other  filters  such  as a  band  pass  filter or  reject  filter  and  so  on. Okay.  Anyway,  we  will  skip  that  details. We  just  quickly  complete this  so  called  linear  processing  part. Then  we  will  go  through  another  part is  non  linear  processing. This  near  processing  is different  from  the  point  processing, although  all  point  processing are  non  linear  gamma  correction, power  transform  and  st  equation, or  are  nnnear,  but  they  are  point  processing. Now  here  we  will  study a  n  point  processing the  output  depends  on  a  group  of  the  input, but  we  design  nonnear  processing. Now  here,  why  is some  nn  linear  processing  for For  enhance  here  is try  to  suppress  the  noise. While  non  near  processing  is  necessary, we  will  see  some  examples. Suppose  we  have  the  original  image  near  image and  this  image  is  crapped  by  noise. Then  what  we  observed  image  is  shown  here. Now,  for  such  kind  of  the  noise  image, how  to  effectively  suppress  all  this  noise. To  get  a  clear  output  image, how  to  design  the  field to  suppress  or  remove  such  kind  of  the  noise. Now,  this  the  noise, we  see  that  the  noise  amplitude is  very  strong  because  from  here we  can  see  the  noise  can  change  the  pixel from  the  brightest  pixel  to  the  boxed  pixel. It  can  change  the  boxed  pixel into  a  brightest  pixel. The  amplitude  of  the  noise is  very,  very  strong. But  spatially,  the  noise  is  sparse. It  is  not  a  dense  noise. That  means,  not  every  pixel are  corrupt  by  noise. Some  pixes,  or  majority  of the  pixels  are  not  corrupted  by  noise. But  for  some  other  pixels  corrupt  noise, the  noise  is  very  strong. Now,  for  such  kind  of  noise  image, if  we  want  to  suppress  that  noise, of  course,  we  know  that no  pass  filter  can  suppress  that  noise. We  can  design  a  low  pass  filter to  smooth  the  image, then  this  random  noise  will  be  suppressed. Now,  the  now  pass  filter can  suppress  the  noise, but  it  will  cause  some  problem. The  output  will  show  here. This  is  one  example  of them  this  input  input  image. This,  this  noise  image. Input  as  the  input  image, we  want  to  suppress  the  noise. We  design  a  low  pass filter  apply  to  this  one, try  to  suppress  the  noise. Then  we  will  get  such  output  image. Now,  this  output  image, we  see  the  noise  amplitude is  suppressed,  become  too  smaller, but  it  is  not  fully  removed, and  even  the  noise  are  spread  out, more  pixels  will  contain  the  noise. So  Later,  we  will  see the  reason  why  because  basically, the  all  no  put  filter  is the  system  is  some  kind  of the  weed  summation  or wet  age  of  the  input  pixels. Now,  if  you  do  a  age of  the  pixel  vue  within  some  filter  window, somehow  if  the  noise  is  very  strong, then  this  strong  noise cannot  be  fully  removed. But  if  we  design  a  filter  very  well, we  can  somehow  produce the  filter  output  as  this  one. If  you  compile  with  this low  pass  filter  output, try  to  sprese  the  noise, we  will  see  this  output  image, of  course,  we  will be  much  better  than  this  one. In  the  left  one  is  much  better  than the  right  one  in  terms  of  the  supress  noise. A.  Now,  but  if  you compile  with  the  original can  image  here,  you  will  see, this  very  good  output  image may  also  have  some  problem  in  some  pictures, that  the  noise  may  not  be  fully  removed. We  still  remain  some  noise. But  most  noise  pictures, the  noise  are  almost  fully  removed. If  you  compare  this  now possibility  to  blur  the  image to  smooth  the  image. This  one  will  get  a  much  better  result. How  can  we  achieve  such  kind of  result  to  get  this  output  image. Here,  we  study the  so  called  non  linear  process. Why  we  need  a  non  linear  processing, we  first  study  the  problem  of the  linear  processing  because for  whatever  kind  of  the  system, if  you  use  the  system  to  design  the  filter, you  can  have  the  no  ps filter  high  pass  filter, band  pass  filter,  no  traject filter  and  so  on  and  so  on. But  all  this  linear  filter, the  output  is  the  convolution  between  input and  the  filter  mask  or  impulse  fs. The  convolution  process  is  some  kind  of the  weighted  summation,  or  weighted  reg. To  simplify  the  problem, we  just  take  all  weights  of  one  for  all  pixs. Basically,  the  mar  filter, the  output  is  just  some  kind of  the  g  of  course, could  be  w  y  age  of the  input  pixels  within  the  field  window. Now,  the  y  age, we  know  it  has  some  limitations. The  problem  of  the  yage,  of  course, if  it  we  blurred  image. This  is  why  we  see that  this  image  ge  are  blurred, it  becomes  to  blurred  image. Now,  the  ig  somehow  is inefficient  to  suppress  a  very  strong  noise. Because  if  we  have  some  noise  value is  significantly different  from  the  image  value. Then  after  you  average  that, this  strong  g  value  is  still  in  the  output. This  show  somehow,  this  kind  of the  strong  noise  is  difficult  to suppress  by  the  linear  processing. Because  all  linear  processing is  just  to  try  to irate  the  input  pixels within  the  field  window. Or  to  simplify  it, it  is  compute  some  kind  of  the  mean  of the  pixels  within  the  field  window,  right? Here,  we  will  introduce  a  other  filter. This  filter  is  totally  different. It  based  on  the  so  called  order  statistic. Based  on  the  order  of  the  Pixel  g  value, not  based  on  dally compute  some  value  based on  the  input  pixel  value. It  is  some  of  the  order  statistic. Now,  all  the  starts  is  based  on rank  or  pixel  value  within  the  filter  window. A  very  famous  order starts  filter  is  so  called  median  filter. Median  mathematic  definition  is  very  simple. Given  image,  if  we apply  a  filter  mask  on  this  image, then  the  output  is just  the  medium  value  of the  input  pixel  within  the  field  window. Within  this  fatal  window, we  have  a  a  number  of  the  input  pixels. We  compute  its  media, then  the  output  is  this  media. We  understand  what  is the  meaning  of  the  median. Here  give  an  example. Suppose  we  have  a  image is  just  three  by  three  image. Our  filter  mask  is  a  three  by  three  filter. We  want  to  design  a  mask  is  a  three  by  three. Three  by  three  mask, we  cover  nine  pixels. Suppose  within  the  fatal  window, this  nine  value  is  the  input  vue. Then  to  take  to  compute  the  median  is  we  met sort  or  value  in Isend  order  or  descending  order. Then  after  that,  we take  the  value  at  the  middle  place. Then  this  middle  place  value  is  the  median. Then  the  output  of the  median  filter  will  be  this  middle  value. Because  the  medium  of  the  input pixels  within  the  beta  window  is  20. The  median  filter  is  just replace  this  15  by  this 20  to  get  the  output  pixel  value at  the  center  pixels. Replace  the  15  by  20, where  20  is  a  medium. Median  is  a  value  at  the  middle  place  by sort  or  pixel  value  in either  descending  order  or  ascending  order. This  is  a  meting  filter. Okay.  Now,  how  this  median  filter  will  make the  difference  compared  to  the  mean  field  or vag  field  or  compare  with all  with  all  menial  filter. Here,  we  will  first show  some  examples  to  understand  that. Now,  to  visualize  it, we  show  the  pixel  value in  height  as  the  pixel  give. We  show  just  one  dimensional  case, that  we  com  plot  it  very  clearly. Suppose  the  given  single  or  image has  one  pase,  has  two  pixels. The  value  are  different  from  the  background. Now,  for  such  kind  of  the  input, what  is  the  output  of  the  miniar  filter  here. To  simplify  it,  we  just  use  the  mean  filter. Suppose  we  design  the  filter  size  is  a  three. Because  this  is  one  dimensional Suppose  filter  size  is  three, then  what  is  the  output? We  can  very  easily  to  show that  the  mean  filter  will  blur such  kind  of  the  structure because  what  is  the mean  filter  or  mimial  filter. The  output  at  one  pixel  is  the  average or  mean  of  the  neighborhood  pixels. On  the  output  of  this  pixel at  the  output  becomes  too  ger, because  it  is  the  average of  the  three  pixels. I  will  become  to  ger  and the  output  of  this  one  become  too  smaller. It  is  pretty  car  so  that  it will  produce  such  of  the  shape. I  will  blur  these  two pixels  into  four  pixels. The  value  are  different  from  the  background. Because  the  value  of  this  pix  increase. Now  this  value  will  decrease. Anyway,  this  is  the  result  of the  mean  or  age  of the  local  neighborhood  of  the  pixels of  the  input  to  produce  the  output,  right? We  understand  this  is  the  effect  of all  me  filter  mean  filter or  weak  mean  or  weak  summation. It  is  the  arithmetic  summation of  the  input  pixel  to  produce  output  pixel. Now,  if  the  two  pictures is  the  image  information  structure, we  met  cave  in  the  output, then  the  mean  filter  will blur  it  because  it  become  too  blur. So  height  decrease  this  increase, if  you  will  blur  this  image  structures. Mean  filter  will  blur  the  image  structure. Now,  if  this  two  pixure, the  value  are  different  from background  is  the  noise. If  we  apply  the  mean  filter  or  linear  filter, this  noise  cannot  be  fully  removed. It  just  decrease  the  amplitude at  bat  from  this  value  to  this  value. It  just  decrease  the  noise  value, but  not  fully  remove  it. And  even  more  it  will  spread  out the  noise  from  two  pixels  into  four  pixels. This  effect  of  the  age  of  a  group  of the  input  pixel  we  come  to the  output.  This  is  a  pred. Then  we  will  examine  how  is  the  medium. Same,  we  will  study the  value  of  this  pix  and  this  pixe. What  is  the  medium  filter  same? We  use  the  same  size,  three. Then  from  here,  we  can  see for  this  output  pix  here. For  this  input  pixel, the  output  will  be  same  as  this  one because  based  on  the  medium  filter, the  output  is  a  medium  of the  three  pixels.  The  medium Of  these  three  pixes, we  are  not  change  the  input. Here  if  we  take the  meting  of  these  three  pixes, the  output  is  same  as  this  pixure. The  medium  filter  not  change  this  value. Then  the  medium  filter  at this  pixure  also  not  change because  the  output  is a  medium  of  the  input  pixes, the  pies,  the  meting  is  this  same  vue. This  is  output.  From  here  we  can see  if  we  apply the  medium  filter  of size  three  to  this  input, the  output  will  be  identical  to  the  input. That  means  in  case, if  this  is  the  image  structure, we  want  to  keep  it  in  the  output  image. Now,  if  we  apply the  median  filter  of  size  three, the  output  are  identical  to  the  input. That  means  the  median  filter will  preserve  such  of the  image  structure  because it  never  never  dest  it, it  keeps  the  output  same  as  the  input. Man  filial  filter  will  blur  it. Now  if  we  understand  what  is the  process  of  that  to  compute  the  median, then  take  the  median  as  the  output. Then  we  need  to  understand if  this  two  picture  is  a  noise. We  want  to  suppress  it. Now,  if  we  use  the  medium  filter, if  we  design  a  median  filter  of size  five,  what  will  have  it? If  we  use  a  medium  filter  of size  five  to  this  input, then  the  output  is  just  the constant  because  at  any  positions, the  medium  of  the  five  pixels is  always  this  value. This  value  will  never  be a  medium  in  the  window  of  size  five. That  means  if  this  two  pixure, this  pass  is  the  noise. The  meting  filter  of  size  five, will  fully  remove  it,  totally  remove  it. Not  just  suppress  the  value  and  met  bit, suppress  the  value  to  same value  as  the  background. That  means  that  meting  filter  of  size five  will  fully  remove  such  of  the  noise. Now,  we  see  the  difference, between  the  meting  filter  and thenar  filter  or  mean  filter. Then  we  will  see further  some  properties  of  the  medium. Now,  age  is a  very  basic  and  significant and  very  important  structure  of  the  image. Given  the  image,  object  always  has  the  age. This  age  is  very  important  information. Picks  a  gre  venue  from one  neighbor  becomes  to  another  neighbor. I  will  form  the  age. Now,  if  we  apply the  mean  filter  to  the  image, then  all  this  age  will  blurred. Clearly,  for  example,  in  this  example, we  have  the  image  age. We  have  a  vertical  age. Show  here.  We  have  a  dark  value  in one  side  of  the  edge  and bright  value  in  the  other  side  of  the  edge. If  we  plot  it  in one  dimensional  functions  use  the  height  to indicate  the  brightness  or  env of  the  image  to  plot  a  profile, that  means  a  nine  cross  the  ge, then  it  is  a  stat  function. Now,  from  here,  we  can  clearly  see  how the  mean  filter  will  blur  the  image. B  the  H.  For  example, we  design  our  mean  filter. The  output  is  a  mean  average  of  the  input. We  design  our  filter  is a  filter  of  size  seven. The  output  will  be the  average  mean  of  the  seven  pixels. Now,  then  we  will  study, what  is  the  output  pixel  value at  the  both  side  of  the  ge. For  example,  a  right  side of  the  age,  here  is  the  one. In  the  right  side  is  always, in  the  side  is  always  the  zero. If  we  place  the  filter  center at  this  position  to produce  the  output  pixels, then  it  is  a  mean  of  this  seven  value. Then  it  is  somehow  0.757. Anyway,  you  can  compute the  average  of  this  saving  value. That  means  the  output  green  value  will reduce  the  g  value  of the  input  from  one,  two,  0.57. This  at  the  right  side  of  the, the  output  value  will  decrease  around  here. Now,  at  the  net  site, the  input  is  zero. Then  the  output  is the  i  range  of  the  seven  pixels. Then  it  will  increase  from  z20  0.43. This  pix  at  the  output  image, it  will  increase,  for  example,  this  value. Then  from  here,  we  can  image. How  this  mean  filter will  change  some  other  venues. You  will  convert  a  staple, a  very  sharp  con  staple  age  into  a  rep  age. That  means  the  g  venue  is  not  change from  one  suddenly  into a  lather  never  to  form  a  non  age. I  will  change  the  venue  gradually  from one  to  a  lather  never  along  this  rep. This  will  show  a  blurred  age,  right? This  is  a  predica. But  if  we  see  what  is the  output  of  the  medium, we  also  check  this  two  pixel  value at  the  output  at  the  both  side  of  the  eight. We  need  to  check  the  one, the  output  will  keep  one  because the  medium  of  this  seven  value  is  one. Well,  this  the  output  is  also zero  because  the  medium  of this  seven  value  is  zero. The  medium  of  this  seven  value  is. As  a  result,  if  we  apply the  meting  filter  of  same  size  seven, the  output  of  this  sta  function is  same  as  the  input. There's  no  change.  It  is  ear. The  meting  filter  will  preserve  the  age. We  are  not  blur  the  age  of the  image.  This  is  pretty  clear. Here,  we  will  say that  the  property  of  the  median  filter, will  not  change  the  age  into  blurred  ge, you  will  keep  the  same  sp function  the  output  of  the  median  filter. Now,  this  is  very  important  because sometimes  we  want  to  remove  the  noise, but  we  want  to  preserve  the  ge, not  be  blurred  by  the  filter. Median  filter  has  such  of  the  property. Now,  here  we  can  use a  very  simple  meta  program  to  produce  some at  function  from  a  small  value suddenly  becomes  a  ge  value  at  age. Suppose  this  age  is  cropped  by very  strong  noise  because  this  noise  can change  the  minimum  value  into the  maximum  value  and  change the  maximum  value  into  the  minimum  value. For  this  black  curve  is  a  no  age. Where  all  this  black  curve  is  noise  age. This  noise  is  very  strong. You  can  change  the  smallest  value to  ngest  value. It  can  also  change  the  ncheal  value into  smallest  value. As  a  result,  this  is a  heavy  noise  age because  from  the  black  curve, we  cannot  identify  this  is  age. Then  if  we  want  to somehow  suppress  such  noise  pixel, we  apply  the  men  filter  or  minar  filter. It  is  a  wiped  average  average  output is  the  average  of  the  input within  the  filter  window. If  we  apply  some  me filter  into  this  noise  age, this  black  curve,  then the  mean  filter  output  is  this  green  curve. Now,  from  the  green  curve, we  can  say  yes  this  mean  filter suppress  the  noise. Before  the  filter,  we cannot  identify this  black  curve  will  form  age. But  after  the  fear  filter or  mean  filter,  commune, the  output  green  venue  is  from roughly  one  n  to  a  n.  I  will  form  age. Here,  we  have  age  information. But  the  mean  filter very  effectively  suppress  the  noise. All  this  noise  make the  output  value  from minimum  value  to  this  green  value. Also  reduce  the  maximum  value to  smaller  becomes  to  this  green  value. This  output  of  the  mean  filter. Man  filter  can  suppress  the  noise, but  not  effective  tops  very  strong  noise. Because  it's  age. Output  is  age  of a  few  pixures  within  the  filter  window. It  is  not  difficult  to  understand,  I  believe. Now,  another  problem  is  meeting  filter, also  blur  the  age. Ideally,  the  age  is  a  step  function, a  very  sharp  edge, but  after  the  meeting  filter  it blur  it  into  a  rip  edge, show  this  green  curve. Now,  for  such  kind  of  input, this  black  curves  form  input  image. If  we  apply  the  median  filter. Now,  if  we  choose the  median  filter  in  proper  size, although  the  noise  is  very  strong, but  the  noise  is  sparse. If  our  filter  window at  if  we  center the  filter  window  at  all  positions, the  number  of  the  noise  pix  is  always  smaller than  the  number  of  the the  noise  three  pixels. Then  the  median  filter  will  produce ideally  the  non  noise  pixels  as  the  output. It  is  possible  the  median  filter will  produce  this  curve, a  perfect  sep  age. Because  the  noise  although  it  is  strong, but  it  is  sparse  spatial  sparse. No  every  px  are  cru  by  noise. By  take  the  median, take  the  value  of  the  majority, all  this  strong  value  will  fully  removed  to generate  the  output  as a  an  age,  the  sep  function. This  show  very  effective of  the  noise  separation  of  the  medium  filter, and  also  it  preserves  the  age. It  will  not  destroy  the  age  structure. It  will  not  blur  the  age. Now,  of  course,  you  may  say you  go  to  a  very  extreme  case, the  noise  is  so  strong. In  that  practice,  if the  noise  is  not  so  strong, may  be  the  filter  will  also perform  Here  we  will show  an  example  of  also  a  step  age, very  near  staple  age, but  noise  by  cru  by  guzing  noise. The  gucing  noise  is  called  dense  noise, that  means  for  this  cpt  age is  this  black  curve. Black  curve  is  cpt  age. I  is  the  age  from one  neighbor  to  another  neighbor. But  the  green  neighbor  is  cpt  by  noise. Now,  this  noise  is  not  a  very  swag, it's  just  guzing  noise, but  it's  a  dense  noise. That  means  every  pix  somehow  cpt  by  noise. It's  a  dense  noise, but  not  spat  noise. Now,  it's  a  ga  noise  so that  the  value  of  the  noise  is  small. Amplitude  is  larger  because gai  PDF  around  zero has  very  high  probability. That  means  most  noise  pixel, the  value  is  very  small. Although  it  has  some  non  zero  value, but  it  is  small, because  gas  PDF  will  show  the  noise, the  most  pixels  is concentrated  in  around  zero. The  amplitude  is  very  small. Anyway,  this  show  black  curve  show a  step  age  cropped  by  a  ging  noise. Gas  the  amplitude  distribution is  a  galing  PDF. We  know  that  noise  is  a  random  value. We  can  only  measure  what  is  its  PDF. It  is  a  gazing  PDF. This  is  this  black  curve. Now,  for  such  a  black  curve, if  we  apply  the  mean  filter, then  the  output  is  this  green  curve. Now,  we  can  see  the  ease  in this  side  of  the  edge and  the  other  side  of  the  edge. The  mean  filter  suppress the  ging  dense  noise  very  well. For  all  this  black  value comes  to  this  green  value. I  suppress  the  noise  very  well. Here  is  also  separates this  noise  value  into  almost  constant. G  for  gazing  dense  noise, the  mean  filter  can suppress  the  noise  very  well. This  is  very  good  for  the  mean  filter, but  the  mean  filter  blurs  the  age. Make  the  sharp  staple  ge  become  to  a  rap  age. Now,  this  is  still  a  problem  of the  mean  filter  even  for  the  gauing  noise. Although  it  can  suppress this  bans  gauz  noise, but  the  mean  filter average  filter  ornear  filter, any  way  will  smooth  the  age. Make  the  image  become  too  blur. Now,  if  we  apply  the  meting  filter, then  the  output  of  the  same  size. The  output  is  this  read  curve. Now,  we  can  see  that meting  filter  can  also  suppress the  gausin  noise  into  almost constant  here  here  is  also  almost  constant. But  very  important  sense  here  is the  meting  filter,  not  b  age. In  the  age,  it  is most  same  as  a  step  functions. This  not  exactly  same  as  state  function. This  read  value  as the  output  of  the  meting  filter is  caused  by  the  noise, not  because  of  this  age. This  is  happened  to  be  around  this  age, this  noise  becomes  this negative  venue  and  here  we have  positive  venue  so that  the  venue  show  here. Compared  to  the  mean  filter, the  median  filter  preserves  the  age. The  meting  filter  also  supports  the  noise. But  if  you  closely look  at  the  very  small  details, you  will  find  that  the meting  f  in  terms  of  the  sups, this  skus  noise  is not  as  good  as  the  mean  filter. F  for  some  case  we  can  see  that. The  met  in  terms  of the  suprise  sku  noise is  not  as  good  as  the  mean  filter. In  fact,  we  have  a  theoretic  study  to show  that  for  this  gain  dense  noise. If  we  take  the  mean  as  output, it  is  the  optimal  value  to  suppress the  gazing  function,  gain  noise. Man  filter  is  the  optimal  filter to  suppress  the  noise. Because  of  that  f,  we  can also  observe  that  for some  parts,  it  is  a  visibly. The  median  filter  is  not  as  good  as the  mean  filter  to suppress  this  dense  noise,  right? But  the  median  field has  a  very  good  property. It  is  not  blur  the  age. Man  filter  will  smooth  edge  or  blur  the  age. Here,  I  give  some  summary about  the  median  field or  what  is  the  median  field  or  how, how  is  it  effect. I  copy  this  one  from  some  textbook, I  think  you  can  just  read  by  yourself. Because  I  believe  I already  introduced  the  principle  of the  meeting  filter  and  the  effect  of the  meeting  filter  very  clearly. Right?  See  some  examples of  the  image  can image  corrupted  by  some  noise. If  this  noise  amplitude  is  drawn, but  spatial  is  sparse, then  we  will  see  the  effect of  the  mean  filter  and  the  meting  filter. The  mean  filter  only  suppress the  noise  amplitude  cannot  fully  remove  it, but  the  meting  filter  can  fully  remove this  sparse  noise  for whatever  of  the  amplitude  of  the  noise. Because  if  we  compute  the  median, one,  11  million,  the  median  is  still  one. Very  large  value  1  million will  not  affect  the  median  value. This  is  why  we  understand  that  it can  fully  remove  the  noise, but  the  ag  filter cannot  fully  remove  the  strong  noise. Now,  we  have  seen very  nice  properties  of  this  median  filter. Of  course,  it's  based  on the  order  statistics. Although  the  meting  filter  has such  a  very  nice  property, but  we  have  one  problem  to  develop the  median  filter  is this  median  filter  is  a  non  linear  filter. It  is  based  on  the  older  statistic. So  the  input  value into  descending  order  or is  order  then  based  on  the  rank, or  the  middle  position  to  get  the  output. Because  of  that,  it  is  very  difficult  to theoretically  study  this  leading  filter compare  to  the  linear  filter. Near  filter  because  it performs  the  arithmetic  operation. Just  the  weed  summation. We  have  very  powerful  mathematics to  study  this  property  of  this  minia  filter, but  a  median  field,  we have  we  have  such  kind  of the  problem  because  it's  based on  the  so  called  order  statistic. We  need  all  the  input. This  is  somehow  difficult. So  theoretical  study,  the  median  filter. We  have  only  one  sent  to  show  that the  meting  filter  will preserve  some  kind  of  the  image  structures. To  preserve  this  structure, this  structure  is  called  Zod  syndrome. We  can  define  a  Zod  singular  is  a  single. It  is  invariant  to  the  meting  filter. That  means  the  output is  identical  to  the  input. Such  a  single  is  called  Zod  syn. Of  course,  depends  on the  size  of  the  medu  filter. You  design  the  size,  right? Now,  here  we  will  show  some  singular  image. If  we  apply  the  median  filter, it  will  change  the  value. But  after  a  several  round  of  that, it  becomes  to  some  structure. Then  the  meting  filter  will  preserve  it, I  will  never  change  it, then  it  becomes  to  a  zu s.  For  such  kind  of  sing, it  will  apply  a  medium  filter  of  size. Then  this  is  output.  I. Away  this  is  output. For  example  here,  the  medium of  the  2012  is  one. The  meting  of  121  is  one. The  meeting  of  the  212  is  two. Anyway,  this  is  output  of a  median  filter  of  size  for  this  input. Now  it  change  the  venue. Now  if  we  apply  the  meting  filter of  size  again  to  this  output, then  it  will  produce  another  output  here. You  can  verify  it  the median  filter  is  just  a  medium  of this  input  venues  to  get  the  output. Suppose  the  size  is  the. The  men  of  this  meting  filter  is. Now,  if  we  apply  to  this  output, then  you  will  produce  this  one. Now,  then  this  ot  one  is  a  ot  singular for  meting  filter  of n  because  we  can  very  easily  to  verify  that. For  meting  filter  of  N, apply  to  such  singular, we  get  the  output  identical  to  the  input. Until  I  never  change  it. This  is  called  loot  syn  for the  medium  field  of  certain  size. So  it  is  not  difficult  to  understand  that. The  constant  input  is  a  ot  single  of the  median  f  median  filter  will  never change  a  constant  input. The  median  filter  will  also  never  change the  monotonically  input  and monotonically  decrease  input  because the  median  is  for  given  a  window, the  medium  is  the  same  as the  input  value  at  the  center. The  output  will  identical  to  the  input. Now,  for  such  kind  of  input  structure, it  can  be  a  constant  increase can  be  constant  decrease. I  also  can  be  a lot  singular  for  the  median  filter. For  the  size,  smaller  than  twice  of  this  ans. Then  the  output  also  identical  to  the  input. This  is  also  a  loot  singular to  the  meting  filter  of  size, not  larger  than  twice  of  this  s.  I  will not  change  this  s.  It will  preserve  this  single  in  the  output. Now,  because  the  meting  filter has  some  very  nice  properties. After  somehow the  meting  filter  become  very  popular, the  researcher  always  try to  invent  some  other  filters. We  have  some  other  filters such  as  the  maximum  filter, minimum  filter,  and  the  mid  point  filter. Just  take  the  output  is the  maximum  venue  of the  input  pixes  within  the  ft  window, or  minimum  value  of the  input  pixes  within  the  ft  venue, or  the  average  of the  maximum  value  and  the  minimum  venue. Of  course,  this  kind  of  filter has  no  good  properties. But  somehow  the  maximum  pooling is  used  in  our N.  It  is  similar  to  a  maximum  filter. I  get  to  take  the  maximum  value. Now,  although  meting  filter preserves  the  image  age, image  age  by  definition is  at  both  side  of  the  age, the  venue  will  extend  to  infinity, so  that  whatever  size  of the  median  filter  will  never  change  this  age. But  the  median  filter  as  one  problem, it  can  remove  some  small  image  details. Because  meeting  filter  is  very strong  to  remove  the  impulsive  noise. The  impulse  noise  because specially  it  is  a  sparse. That  it  is  a  small  structure or  some  of  the  details. If  the  image  has  also  such  of  the  details, it  can  be  removed the  totally  removed  by  the  meting  filter. So  this  is  one  disadvantage of  the  meting  filters. For  example,  image, although  meting  filter  also  preserves  the  ge, but  it  will  remove  the  corner. If  two  ge  will  close  here,  then  at  here, it  will  form  a  corner, then  the  meting  filter will  remove  the  corner. Because  in  the  corner, if  you  put  a filter  mask  center  at  the  corner, then  Then  the  majority  pix  is  the  background, is  not  the  corner  pixel  venue. We  understand  that.  The  median  filter will  remove  the  corner  and remove  some  other  fine  details of  the  image  structures. Because  of  that,  some  researcher always  try  to  design a  filter  can  preserve  such  small  details, but  can  also  remove  a  strong  noise. There  are  a  lot  of the  research  papers  talking  about the  so  called  image  detail  preserve  filters. Here,  I  just  show  one  of my  research  work  to  design  a  filter. It  can  preserve  the  image  details, but  remove  random  impassive  noise. Basically,  this  work  is based  on  a  simple  ideas. If  the  extreme  value  is  a  noise. So  it  is  random.  But  if extreme  value  is  image  details, the  image  details  always will  form  some  structure, for  example,  a  curve. A  curve  although  within a  square  filter  window, a  curve  single  picture  curve is  only  minority  of  the  pictures, but  it  will  close  the  filter  window. So  Somehow,  we  can always  based  on  some  property of  the  image  de  structure  details, different  from  the  random  noise  to design  the  filter  so  that  the  filter  can preserve  such  kind  of the  details  and  also can  remove  a  strong  impassive  noise. Now,  we  have  another  problem. As  I  mentioned  that  for the  median  filter,  not  the  problem. Some  slightly  disadvantage  is the  median  filter  is  not  as good  as  the  mean  filter  in  terms of  the  ps  the  noise. Be  the  origin,  we can  prove  that  for  Dens  noise, the  mean  filter  is  optimal. Median  filter  is  not  as  good  as the  gal  filter  as the  mean  filter  to  handle  the  guin  noise. People  try  to  combine the  property  of  the  median  filter  and the  mean  filter  to  generate  a  new filter  Alpha  trimmed  mean  filter. Now,  this  so  called  Alpha trimmed  mean  filter  is  very  famous. This  filter  must  appear  in all  image  processing  textbook because  it  somehow  combine the  median  filter  idea and  the  mean  filter  idea. Now,  this  Alpha  trimmed  mean  filter is  very  straightforward. What  is  this  Alpha  trimmed  mean  filter. Basically,  it  is  a  mean  filter, so  it  will  perform  some  of  the  input  pixes. But  it  is  not  some  of  all  input  pixes. It  is  some  of  only  part  of the  input  pixes  within  the  fit  window  by first  half  D  of the  first  remove  D  extreme  value inside  of  the  fetal  window. Here,  the  pixel  value are  removed  from  the  summation. This  summation  average  is  the  average  of the  pixel  within  the  fetal  window after  remove  the  extreme  venues. For  example,  half  the  largest  venue and  half  the  smallest  value. Inside  of  this  filter  window. Then  after  that,  the  remaining  pixel will  do  the  average. I  suppose  the  filter  window  is  of size  by  n.  Together  we  have  n  pixels. After  we  remove  d  extremely  values, then  the  average  is  only divided  by  by  times  n minus  d.  This  summation  is only  this  number  of  the  pixels. Is  the  average  of  the  remaining  pixel  value. After  we  remove  d  extreme  venues. Half  the  chest  value, half  the  smallest  value. This  kind  of  filter  is  called Alpha  tried  mean  filter. Basically,  it  will  compute  the  mean. So  it  is  the  mean  filter, but  it's  Alpha  tried, before  we  compute  the  mean, we  need  first  remove  D pixels  that  has  extreme  value,  extremely, extremely  small,  al  archest  value and  half  smallest  value, then  do  the  average  of  the  remaining  pixels. Is  Alpha  tried  mean  filter. Now,  for  this  alpha  trimmed  mean  filter, suppose  if  we  take  the  d  equals  to  zero. Then  it  is  just  a  mean  filter. This  is  the  mean  of  all  pixel within  the  filter  window. Now,  if  we  take  this  d  equals  to  n  minus  one. Then  what  is  this  filter? It  is  equivalent  to median  filter  because  we  remove  half  highest, halfs,  remain  the  med  value. In  this  average,  a  single  item  here. So  it  is  just  a  medium  filter. If  we  take  the  d  equals  to  m  n  minus  one, then  this  al  mean  filter  is  medi  medium. If  we  take  the  d  is  zero, then  this  filter  is  a  mean  filter. This  Alpha  tread  theater  is  very  famous. It  also  applied  in  the  practice  and then  appear  in  all  image  processing  textbook. But  there  is  one  limitation not  only  one  limitation. There  are  some  limitations  for this  Alpha  treat  me  theater. First,  if  we  want  to  design  the  filter to  combine  the  property of  the  mean  and  the  median. How  to  choose  this  D? This  is  one  quiz. Should  we  remove  just  a  single  pixel, not  just  the  pix  and smaller  or  more  than  one, if  we  remove  two  many  then  will reduce  to  exact  same  as  the  medium. This  is  one  limitations. How  to  choose  this  d.  Another  limitation  is, although  this  filter  is  called  mean  filter, Alpha  trimmed  mean  filter, but  basically  to  implement  such  filter, we  still  need  sort the  whole  data  within  the  filter  window. For  example,  if  we  want  to remove  five  largest  value, we  remove  five  smallest  value. Basically,  we  need  to  sort  all  value. We  still  need  to  sort  the  data. Now,  this  data  sorting  is totally  different  process  compared to  wed  average  wed  summation. This  data  sorting  is a  problem  to  compute  in  CPU. We  need  write  a  program to  sort  this  data  one  by  one. Somehow  sometimes  it  is  very  troublesome. This  is  another  limitation is  this  Alpha  trimmed  mean  filter, basically  still  met  sort all  data  within  the  field  of  window, where  this  data  sorting  somehow  is totally  different  from  our conventional  processing. Multiplication  summation. This  data  sorting  is  totally  different. This  may  the  t  in terms  of  the  in  terms  of  implementation, we  use  large  scale  to  implement  such  kind  of the  process  or  repeat this  process  in  many  stage. This  is  why  is  also another  limitation  or  the  questions. Now,  this  Alpha  trimmed  mean  filter, basically,  it  will  remove  the  extreme  value. Then  the  remaining  venue will  be  to  the  average. Now,  given  a  set  of  the  data. If  you  remove  some  of  them, then  just  compute  the  remaining  one. Then  in  my  opinion, it  will  show  some  of  the  unstable  because some  you  totally  remove  out,  not  use  it. I  may  ca  some  unstable  result. If  we  want  to  try  to  handle  the  problem, solve  the  problem  of some  value  extremely  larger,  extremely  small. We  want  to  handle  this  problem. Why  we  must  remove  them? We  can  somehow  tuncate  this this  extreme  value  in  within  some  rags. This  tate  value  into some  band  is  different from  totally  remove  them. So  To  handle  this  extreme  value within  the  fit  window, should  we  remove  it, or  should  we  truncate  it? This  is  also  a  question, which  one  is  better? This  we  need  me  some  interest  to further  study  this  to further  study  these  issues. So  because  of  that, I  have  one  research  work  to  generate a  so  called  truncated  mean  filter and  use  some  iterative  tink  mean  filter. This  work  is  published  in  TIP is  IT  transection  and  image  processing. Then  after  that,  my PH  student  further  develop some  modified  aging  because we  talk  about  the  mean. If  more  general  it  should  be weak  me  weed  or  weak  summing. We  can  extend  it  into weed  filter  or  to  do  some  further  studies. Now,  here  I  will  show the  basic  ideas  of  this  of  the  method. Because  I  think  this  is a  very  important  sense  because mean  and  median  is  the  two  very, very  fundamental statistics  of  given  data  set. Because  in  all  operation, we  always  try  to  find  some  summation. O  here  the  meting  filter, we  try  to  find  all  them. We  need  to  study  what  is the  difference  of  this  two  statistic. Given  a  set  of  the  data. We  have  the  mean,  we  have  the  median. What  is  the  basic  relation  between  them? Now,  this  mean  and  meting  are  very important  because  the  mean  is the  venue  to  minimize the  squared  distance  of all  data  to  this  value. T  given  a  set  of  the  data  x  I  from  one to  n  for  whatever  size  of  the n.  The  mean  is  the  value. I  will  minimize  the  distance between  all  data  to  this  value. Then  this  value  is  the  mean  or  verge. I  believe  this  is  a  well  known  fact. We  can  also  very  easily to  mathematically  to  prove  it. Also,  this  is  very  important  because  if all  this  data  all  this  value  form  a  vector, then  this  one  is  some  of the  two  norm  minimization. Where  the  meeting  is  a  value  to  minimize the  distance  of  all  data to  this  value,  not  squared  distance. This  is  a  square  distance where  meeting  is  non  square  is just  a  distance  of all  value  to  a  single  value. Then  this  value,  if  we  minimize this  then  this  value  is  the  medium. Well,  if  we  form  all  data  into  a  vector, then  this  is  some  of the  one  minimization  problem. Even  now  we  study the  machine  learning  to  train, whatever,  you  must  have some  nose  function  to  minimize  it. Sometimes  we  minimize  the  22  norm. Sometimes  we  choose  the  one  no  minimization. If  we  have  very well  understand  of the  difference  between  this  two, no  minimization  or  one, no  minimization, it  will  bring  us  a  lot  of  the  benefit. Now,  for  example,  L  two,  no  minimization, we  can  very  easily  need  to  solve  this  problem because  usually  we  can  get  a  closed  solution. Where  L  no  minimization is  much,  much  more  difficult. We  have  no  closed  solution. We  don't  have  the  analytical  result, what  is  the  solution  of  this  minimization. We  can  only  achieve  that  by iter  update  some  value. Then  at  the  end  to  approach  this  value. This  is  a  problem  of  the  one  minimization. But  why  now  in  the  new  network  or  in some  machining  or  in  a  lot  of  application, we  choose  A  one. Because  one  nom  will show  some  good  properties. It  will  tolerant  some  extreme  value. We  need  to  use  the  L  one  norm. Anyway  in  the  neural  network or  some  machine  learning, we  use  the  iterative  approach. Even  we  don't  use  the  L  one  norm  use  tom, we  still  use  the  iterative  approach. That  if  we  use  the  L  one  norm, it  will  not  increase  the  cost  significantly. By  the  machine  learning  process is  the  iterative  process. Okay.  Now,  anyway,  both mean  and  the  median have  their  own  marriage  and  limitations. How  to  find  a  solution  that  is  between  them, it  could  be  some  solution. The  result  is  between  mean  and  the  median. The  result  could  be perform  both  mean  and the  median.  It  is  a  possible. This  is  why  the  Alpha  median filter  has  some  ma. H  some  applications. Now,  I  s  the  computation of  this  medium  is  inefficient. Basically,  we  need  to  sort  the  data. This  operation  is  totally  different  from the  arithmetic  operation, summation  and  multiplication. We  can  start  to  somehow, if  it's  a  possible, we  can  use  this  arithmetic  mean  operation to  get  a  solution close  to  the  medium or  even  to  get  the  medium. It  is  a  possible  or  not. Because  the  order  statistic, this  sorting  process  is very  difficult  to  compare  to a  simple  arithmetic operation  multiplication  and  summation. To  study  it  we  met  first  event, what  is  the  renation between  mean  and  the  medium? Here,  give  you  examples. What  means  the  renation between  mean  and  the  medium. This  example  to  show  we  have  I  believe  it 21.21  value  in  a  data  set, where  each  value  is  this  point, the  hotter  position  indicates  the  value. We  have  a  set  of  the  data. The  value  of  the  data, show  the  position  of  the  dot,  each  dot. Now,  for  such  data  set, if  we  compute  the  mean  average of  this  dataset, we  can  very  easily  show that  the  average  is  this  value. Is  this  vertical  value, then  we  put  a  line  to  indicate  here  is me  or  the  average  of  this  21  values. But  if  we  compute  the  medium, it  will  be  different  from  the  mean, it  is  this  t  value. The  hot  value  of this  position  is  the  medium  of this  21  point.  They  are  different. We  have  the  mean  and  we have  the  medium,  they  are  different. But  how  much  is  this  difference? Of  course,  this  depends on  the  different  data  set will  be  totally  different. For  example,  if  we compute  the  mean  of  three  values. If  the  three  values  one, two,  three,  then  what  is  the  mean? Man  of  course  is  the  tool. Then  what  is  the  median? Median  is  also  tool. In  such  a  case,  the  difference is  zero,  the  same. But  if  we  have  three  values  one, two  and  100,  01, two  and  1,000,  the  median  is  still  two, but  the  mean  is  330, if  another  value  is  100  or  1,000. The  difference  between  mean  and the  median  could  be  greatly  different. This  depends  on  the  distribution  of the  data  of  the  data  in  this  data  set. But  for  whatever  of  the  distribution, can  we  find  a  band? That  means  the  distance the  difference  between  mean  and the  median  for  ending data  set  must  be  smaller  than  some  value. Is  it  possible  or  not? Now,  of  course,  if  we  want to  find  such  a  bond, it  is  very  easy. If  we  find  the  dynamic  range of  this  data  distribution. For  example,  maximum  value minus  minimum  value, this  range  must  be larger  than  this  difference. The  difference  between  Man and  the  met  must  be smaller  than  this  range  data  range. Now,  although  this  is  a  band, but  it  is  a  new  spun, we  want  to  find  a  value  smaller than  this  data  range  to  bond  this  difference. Then  given  a  dataset, we  can  compute  some  startistics. For  example,  this  is  standard  deviation. This  t  two  is  standard  deviation, where  this  one  is the  absolute  value  of the  deviation  of  the  data  to. The  mean.  Anyway,  this is  the  average  of  a  square, this  is  the  average  of  not  the  square. This  is  also  some  statistical  value. We  can  also  try  to  find. First,  we  get  the  mean. Then  this  mean  to separate  this  data  into  two  group. The  data  the  mean and  the  data  smaller  than  me. Then  this  two  group, we  can  also  compute  two  means, and  then  the  differ  half  of  this  difference, then  we  can  get  another  venue. A  this  value  will  be  much smaller  than  the  whole  data  range. Then  in  this  work, I  first  to  prove that  the  difference  between  meting and  mean  must  be smaller  than  the  three  values. This  values  is  much  smaller than  the  whole  range of  the  data  distribution. We  find  a  small  bond  to bond  the  difference  between mean  and  the  medium. This  one  is  theoretical  proof. Mathematic  we  can  prove  it. The  the  difference  between  mean and  the  medium  always smaller  than  the  three  values. And  I  also  mathematically prove  it  in  all  these  three  values, this  p  s  is  the  smallest. This  pole  s  is the  tightest  bond  of the  difference  between  mean  and  the  medium. Now,  after  we  have  the  smallest  bund, then  we  can  use  this  bond  as the  trial  to  process  the  data. I  will  give  one  simple  algorithm to  process  the  data. It  is  called  iterative  arithmetic  mean  field or  ITM  algorithm, iterative  tuncate,  mean  algorithm. This  algorithm  is  pretty  clear. Given  a  data  set, again,  I  use  this  example, this  black  dot  show  the  value  of  the  data. We  have  21.21  value  in  this  data  set,  right? Okay.  This  algorithm first,  we  compute  the  mean. Man  is  very  easy  we  compute  it. Sm  them  together  divide by  the  number  of  the  samples. We  get  the  mean.  Now,  after we  compute  the  mean, then  we  compute  this  t. This  we  choose  this  smallest  value,  this. It  is  s  here  is  this  one. This  value  because  is smaller  than  to  smaller  than  to, we  take  the  smallest  value  so that  we  handle  this  data  more  efficient. Anyway  here,  We  first compute  the  mean,  for  example, given  such  a  black  dot  as  data  set  value, we  compute  the  mean, then  this  mean  will  be indicated  by  this  hot  nine  black  hot  nines. I  believe  it  is  that,  get  the  mean. Now,  after  we  complete  the  mean, then  we  take  this  tile  as the  t  and  then  we  truncate  the  data outside  of  this  range  means minus  tole  and  the  mean plus  t  outside  of  this  range, to  this  bond  value. This  is  the  trancation  process. For  example,  this  outside  of this  two  green  nines will  become  reduced  to  here. All  this  black  value  will  reduced  here. So  we  change  the  data. In  general,  we  may  have some  values  smaller  than  this  go  nine, well  truncate  two,  this  nine. This  data  trancation,  will trancate  the  data  into  this  two  bond. Now  then  the  whole  data set  value  will  change. Then  again,  we  compute  the  mean of  this  modified  data  set, modified  value  in  the  data  set, compute  a  new  mean, and  then  we  can  it  this  process again  and  again  to  get  the  result. Here,  we  will  show,  for  example, in  the  first  given  a  data  set, we  can  compute  the  mean  is  here. If  the  medium  of  this  data  set  is  this  value. We  get  the  first  mean. Now,  then  we  use this  first  mean  and  this  tile  to  truncate the  data  into  this  tc  data and  then  to  compute  the  mean  again, then  this  mean  of this  tc  data  will  become  here. M  t  is  the  mean  of  the  tranc  data. I  will  show  you  that  this  If  we always  truncate  the  data  to  compute the  mean  and  then  truncate  it  again, then  the  mean  will  move  towards  the  medium. It  will  move  towards  the  medium. Of  course,  it  is  not  difficult  to  image. It  will  really  move  towards  the  medium. After  several  of  the  iteration, then  this  truncated  the  mean  we are  very  close  to  the  medium. This  is  the  purpose  of  this iterative  truncated  mean  filter to  get  the  output. But  to  fully  solve  this  doubt, we  need  some  mathematical  proof. First  of  all,  we  need  to make  sure  this  bond  is a  small  lag  so  that  for  ending  dataset, there  is  always  some  data outside  of  this  bond. So  that  this  transion  process will  never  idle. It  always  change  the  data. Otherwise,  if  you  choose this  bond  is  too  large, all  data  is  within  this  bond, then  you  tate  it, will  not  change  the  data, then  you  will  have  the  problem. This  iterative  process  will always  not  change  the  data. We  need  some  kind  of  the  proof  here. I  have  first  mathematic  proof that  for  any  data  set, If  we  take  this  to, this  ts  is  computed  as  a to  computed  from  previous  nights. Then  for  any  data  set, there's  always  at  least  one  venue is  outside  of  this  bound. This  is  a  mathematic  proof  for  any  data  set. Always  there  are  some  value outside  of  this  bond. Because  of  that,  if  we tuncate  the  data  to  the  bond, it  will  always  change  the  data  value. That  because  of  that, if  we  trancate  it  one  by  one, the  tow  will  always  reduce  the  bond, the  two  bond  will  always  reduce. Now,  it  is  always  reduced, but  the  mean  and  the  median is  always  inside  of  this  bond. Because  of  that,  we  can very  easily  to  prove  that. This  tinct  mean  of  this  algorithm  will  make the  truncated  mean  approach to  the  median  eb  close. At  the  end,  we  will  get the  medium  by  use  this  truncated  the  mean. This  so  called  serum is  a  mathematical  proof  of  it. We  can  guarantee  it, we  will  gate  the  medium. After  we  truncate  the data  then  complete  the  mean, then  truncate  the  data, then  compute  the  mean. We  will  get  the  media. Now,  in  the  practice, we  only  need  to  cate  two  or  three  times. Then  the  result  we  very  close  to  the  medium, and  even  for  many  application  does not  mean  the  medium  is  the  best  solution. We  can  stop  this  iterative  algorithm just  it  two  times  or  three  times. Then  the  output  can  be even  original  mean  and also  better  than  medium. Now,  I  gave  you  an  example why  this  some  value, not  the  mean  and  not  the  meeting can  be  better  than  both  of  them. For  example,  in  the  Olympic  games, we  know  what  is  to  score  to  get  the  score. If  we  have  a  panel  member, each  member  gave  a  score. Then  in  the  Olympic  games, we  always  try  to somehow  remove  the  highest  score, remove  the  lowest  score, then  to  do  the  average  as  the  final  score. I  believe  all  of  you  know these  Olympic  games  to  get  the  final  score. If  we  have  a  group  of the  score  to  get  the  final  score, why  we  don't  use  just  the  mean? Why  we  don't  just  use  the  media? We  remove  some  largest  one, remove  some  smallest  we, then  do  the  average. Now,  the  pi  games  use  this. It  must  have  some  reason. It  must  have  some  advantage, better  than  mean  and  also  better  than  median. This  is  why  this  choism  does not  mean  we  must  converge  to  the  median. We  can  just  it  for  a  few  times  when  we  stop. Then  the  result  could  be better  than  both  mean  and  the  median. Here,  anyway,  we  will  show  I  will study  this  problem  because  mean a  the  median  is two  very  fundamental  data  operation used  in  many  applications, and  one  come  from  the  two  no  minimization, another  come  from  one  no  minimization, and  this  two  minimization  is  also widely  used  in  all  main  right? Well,  compare  to  the  mean, we  can  use  the  arithmetic operation  multiplication  submission, we  can  get  with  that. The  median,  we  need  to  sort  this  data. So  application  is intractable,  it's  a  problem. We  study  this.  This  relation between  mean  and  the  median, then  we  can  gate  the  median without  sort  the  data. We  just  iterate  the  data and  then  compute  the  men. Even  in  the  practice, we  don't  met  iterate  many  times, just  two  or  three  times. We  get  a  very  good  result. This  is  why  we  proper  determination of  this  algorithm  can  produce  the  result. It  has  merits  of  both  mean  and the  medium  such  as  Olympic  games. This  is  why  in the  Olympic  games,  we  use  the  result, remove  highest  score,  remove  lowest  score, then  to  do  the  verage. This  is  also  have  a  name is  called  Olympic  average. It  must  have  some  good  properties compared  to  sample  mean  and  sampling  ding. We  stop  this  topic. Anyway  up  to  now, what  we  study  is  many  focus on  our  human  vision  to improve  the  appearance  of  that  image. Such  as  contrast  enhancement, remove  the  noise, and  so  on  and  so  on, is  many  for  our  human  vision. Now,  start  from  next  topic, we  will  really  study  the  machine  vision, how  to  process  the  image  for machine  to  automatically  recognize  it, not  fill  our  human  eyes  to preserve  it  to  machine to  automate  recognize  it. After  break,  I  will  go to  part  of  next  topic  to introduce  the  machine  version to  process  the  image  for  machine, not  for  our  human  eyes.  Okay. So  I  think  we  can  have  a  break. I  suggest  we  have  only  10  minutes of  break  so  that  we  can complete  earlier  because  tonight is  some  problem  very  cloud. Okay  10  minutes  of  the  break. Yes.  In  week  seven  in  week  seven.  What? Yeah,  for  the  qui. What  could  be  e  s  we  have  some  tic  choice. We  have  some  select  answer  to  answer. It  could  be  a  b  but  somehow  online  quiz. Ice.  I  que statements  which  one this  one.  Eight  as  based  on this  one  computer  posing  depends  on  how  good this  was  because  this  up  somehow  value so  that  as  a  center  where somehow  posit  to  make very  smooth  cs B  post somehow  age  in  the  center  a B  the  high  age  the  high  rage  out  Now the  center  of  somehow  this  i  g  as  a. Depend  on  if  you  have  some  is, what  sides  shape  can  design  window as  close  shapes  can design  window  not  a  square. You  can  also  if  this  sh  close. You  can't  exactly  as  close.  Okay. So  to  make  a  little  size  and  so  I  will mask  mask. Thank  you. Mm. Oh  A  gases  you  have. Okay,  so  we  resume  class  so that  we  can  finish  earlier. As  I  mentioned  that,  previously, we  studied  some  techniques  also our  target  is  somehow  try to  target  our  human  vision. But  some  method  we developed  is  also  very useful  for  march  invasion, such  as  the  convolution. Also  use  in  and  also the  f  transform  also  can  be very  useful  in  some  march  invasion  problem. O  to  study  this  kind  of the  traditional  method in  the  image  processing, we  are  first  target  our  human  vision,  right. Now,  we  will  move  to directly  target  out  at  the  machine. How  to  process  the  image  to  make  the  machine easier  to automatically  recognize the  visual  information. As  the  first  topic, I  will  first  introduce some  very  simple  ideas, so  called  intuitive  understanding of  the  visual  object  recolions. So  from  here,  we  will  introduce  what is  the  matching  of the  different  visual  object, and  then  why  we  need  from  the  matching  to the  classification  and  why  we need  the  so  called  machine  learning. All  this  machine  learning  classification, this  appears  to  now  develop to  a  very  complex  technology. In  fact,  all  of  them  come  from a  very  intuitive  ideas. From  a  very  simple  intuitive  ideas apply  to  the  practice  to  the  practice. Then  to  find  what  is  the  limitation. What  is  the  possible  problem, then  how  to  solve  this  problem. Then  we  will  we  will develop  many  different  of  technique. We  will  start  from  a  very intuitive  simple  s.  Now,  first, we  need  to  understand  how  a  machine  system can  recognize  or  identify  a  query  object. An  object  A.  Come  to  a  machine  or  a  system. How  can  recognize  this  input  as  something, a  human  face  or  building  or car  or  some  other  object. How  the  machine  can  recognize it  or  identify  it. Now,  basically,  the  machine cannot  understand  this  input. The  machine  can  only  do  comparison. That  means  in  the  machine  in  the  system, we  have  a  database, a  dataset,  gallery  object. Okay.  We  have  g1g2  up  to  GC. We  have  many  different  kind  of object  store  in  our  gallery or  in  our  data  set. Then  if  the  system  receive an  unknown  object  to identify  it  or  to recognize  it  in  the  machine, is  just  do  a  very  simple  things. We  do  a  comparison. We  compile  this  if  with  each  of  our  gallery and  then  to  find  which gallery  most  close  to  this  unknown. Then  we  identify  this if  come  from  which  object. Basically  machine  can  only do  such  kind  of  sentence. Here,  we  say  given  an  unknown  object  A, the  system  need  to  recognize  or  identify  it, or  originate  from which  object  in  our  gallery. This  is  some  of  the  sis  the  machine  can  do. The  machine  can  do  some kind  of  the  comparison. Now  in  the  machine,  how  to  do  the  comparison. First  of  all,  g,  if we  want  to  compare  the  input A  with  one  of  the  gallery  g,  g  is  index. To  do  the  comparation  based  cleans  machine, is  first  do  a  difference. If  they  are  identical, then  of  course,  difference  is  zero. If  the  difference  is  zero, then  they  are  not  identical. We  will  do  a  difference  between  two. One  is  unknown  input. Another  is  known,  we  already  know  what  is  it in  store  in  our  gallery  or  in  our  database. We  do  a  difference. Now,  we  have  the  difference. We  need  to  convert  this  difference  into one  single  value  because the  object  can  be  described  by  a  matrix, a  many  different  kind  of  value. For  example,  given  a  image, one  pixel  is  one  value. A  image  contains  1  million  pixes. We  have  1  million  different  value. Then  this  difference  will produce  1  million  different  values. We  have  this  difference, we  need  to  convert  this  difference into  a  single  value. So  that  we  can  compile the  difference  between  A and  a  different  gallery. To  do  the  comparison, we  need  to  use  one  single  value to  see  which  one  is  the  smallest. Now,  this  conversion  to  convert  a  group  of the  value  into  a  single  value  is  called  norm. This  is  why  given  a  vector. We  can  compute  the  norm. The  norm  is  just  one  single  value. Given  a  matric. The  compute,  what  is  it  norm. The  comparison  is  first  to  make the  difference  and  then  convert this  difference  into  norm into  one  single  value. Then  we  get  this  single  value, go  through  all  gallery  image, then  to  find  the  minimum  value. After  we  find  the  minimum  value, we  don't  met  this  value  itself. We  need  to  know which  produce  the  minimum  venue. It  is  the  argument  of  this  of  this  function, which  is  the  k  vue. The  j  equals  to  k,  it  is  a  minimum. The  result  is  the  argument  of  this  function, the  argument  means  the  variable, the  variable, this  is  running  over  all  different  vue. G  is  this  running  index. This  is  a  mathematic  formulation of  this  so  called  minimization  problem. We  minimize  the  norm  of  this  difference, and  then  to  find  which  make  this  minimum. Then  we  assign  this  g  into  the  output  k. We  identify  this  come  from  the  object. The  k  is  one  of this  index  value  that  produce  this  minimum. This  is  pretty  clear.  Even  a  children of  a  few  years  old should  be  able  to  understand  that. Basically  here.  This  approach is  called  template  matching. Y  is  called  matching  because  we find  the  most  similar  two  sets, or  find  the  smallest  difference, that  A  and  gg  all  this  g  equals  to  k, they  are  matched  together. Where  G  is  a  gary  object, it  is  a  template  of  this  object. We  use  gg  to  represent the  object  g.  This is  called  template  matching. I  just  match  the  unknown  input with  our  known  template  of  the  object  one by  one  to  find  the  closed  to find  the  most  seminal  one. This  is  called  template  matching,  right? No,  but  to  do  such  temple  matching, we  need  to  compute this  norm  of  the  difference. The  difference  is  a  goof  of  that  value. It  can  be  a  vector  matrix. If  we  arrange all  this  different  value  into  a  vector, then  after  the  difference  is  also, then  to  compute  this  is  For  example, if  this  norm  we  take  the  two  norm, we  take  the  square  of  the  difference, then  sum  overall  this  component of  this  set  of  the  value, then  this  norm  is  called  distance. Now,  given  the  object in  two  point  in our  site  dimensional  physical  world. If  you  do  the  comparison  to  do the  difference  is  also  site  dimensional. Then  if  we  convert this  three  dimensional  difference into  a  squared  sum  of  the  three  component, then  it  becomes  distance. The  distance  is  just  one  single  value. Is  one  of  this  norm. Here,  if  we  call  this  norm  as  the  distance, then  we  need  to  compute the  distance  between  A  and  the  GG. The  distance  is  also  one  of the  norm  of  a  group  of the  number  to  convert  a  group of  this  number  into  one  single  venue. Of  course,  we  can  also  call  the  similarity. Somehow  the  distance  and similarity  is  in  opposite. Not  just  the  distance  is  most  dissimilar. That  means  we  have  smallest  distance is  highest  similarity. They  are  just  reverse  them. Basically,  to  do  such  a  comparing, it  is  some  temperate  match,  very  simple. We  met  compute  the  distance. We  find  a  way  to compare  two  different  objects. This  racial  object  could  be  a  image, or  it  can  be  a  matrix  or  video  or  somehow, it  depends  on  how  you  arrange all  data  of  this  object into  a  vect  or  a  matrix. We  need  to  compute  the  distance of  the  difference  of  the  two  sons. Now,  if  the  object  is  a  image, we  know  what  is  representation  of  the  image. Basically  a  image  from  here  we  will  show, it  is  a  ray  of  the  brightene  image  can be  represented  by  a  function of  the  two  special  variable. Numeric  value  of  the  image, it  can  be  a  matrix. Or  we  can  represent  image  into a  function  of  the  two  special  variable. Now,  if  the  object  is a  object  is  represented  by  image, then  how  to  compute  this  No. Now,  we  first  gave  an  example  in  terms  of the  function  of  the  two  variable to  represent  a  image. We  have  A  and  G. This  is  the  two  image. How  to  find  the  difference between  this  two  image. First  of  all,  we  do  the  difference. But  this  difference  we  can  generate many  different  venues  for  each  x  and y  will  generate  one  difference. We  have  many  difference between  these  two  images. Then  we  sum,  all  this  difference square  together  to  produce just  one  single  venue. This  single  venue,  if we  use  this  sum  of  the  square  difference, then  it  is  called  some  kind  of  ukV  distance. Now  here,  summation  up  to  p  and  the  Q, suppose  that  image  size  is  a  p  and  the  Q. Again,  Now, to  further  make  this  expression  car, we  can  arrange  all  pixel  value into  a  single  for  example  um  vectors. Then  we  can  further simplify  this  expressions. B  in  this  expressions, we  need  difference  for each  pixels  and  then  square  them, then  we  have  two  to  sum  them  together. Now,  to  simplify  this  expression, we  can  first  arrange  all  pix  of one  image  into  a  very  non  vectors. In  the  traditional  single  processing  and  some meaning  mathematics  to  study  the  vector. We  always  take  a  vector by  before  it's  a  um  vector. Now  here  we  will  show  how  to convert  a  image  into  a  vector. Suppose  we  have  the  image three  by  three  image. We  have  nine  values. We  just  put  all  this nine  venue  into  a  vector. Because  by  before  a  vector  is a  coon  vector  here  to  display  this  vector, it  is  better  in  this  role, so  we  use  the  transpose, then  get  the  coon  vector. Here  is  a  vector. A  image  can  also  be  represented  by  a  vector. Non  necessary,  we  must  use  a  matrix. Sometimes  for  simplify  the  mathematics, we  convert  this  matrix  into  a  vector. By  doing  so,  we  can simplify  our  expression  here, this  so  called  distance by  vector  multiplication. Now,  if  we  represent  the  object  by a  two  object  by  two  vectors, then  this  of  the  distance can  be  represented  by difference  of  the  two  vectors  and the  transpose  of  the  vector and  then  the  multiplication. This  is  very  convenient. We  can  use  this  one  to  compute the  distance  or  compute  the  norm. Now  we  define  this  norm in  this  mathematic  expression, and  this  norm  is called  two  norm  of  this  vector. A  minus  g  is  also  a  vector  here. This  is  two  of  this  vector. This  is  a  definition  of  the  two  norm. We  can  simplify  88 into  just  a  dot  product  of  the  two  vector. A  row  vector  multiply by  a  common  vector then  become  a  single  value,  right? Now,  this  is  a  known  value is  called  euch  distance. Because  euch  distance  is  natural  distance, we  can  see  it  very  clearly. It  is  a  very  visible. What  is  the  euch  distance? It  is  a  real  geometric  distance between  two  points. But  then  if  we just  apply  this  very  simple  idea  to  do the  object  recognition  to  design such  kind  of  method in  a  machine  or  in  the  system. Then  we  need  to  find  what  is  the  limitation? What  is  the  problem  and  then  try to  solve  the  problem or  overcome  that  limitation. The  first  one  we  need  to  ask us  is  the  quit  distance  between two  images  show  here  really indicate  the  similarity  of the  content  of  this  two  image. Here,  give  examples  to  compute the  Euclid  distance  of the  two  images  show  here. Suppose  we  have  one  image here  pattern  is  a  matrix. We  have  another  image  show  here. Now,  if  we  need  to  compare  this  two  image, we  compute  the  equity  distance  between  them. Then  what  is  the  result? The  result  is  huge. For  example,  we  convert this  matrix  into  a  vector, the  second  image  into  a  vector. Then  use  this  difference con  v  transpose  into row  vector  multiply  by  each, then  this  is  the  equ  distance. Now,  this  equis  will  show  a  very  large  value. But  in  fact, this  two  image  will  show  a  same  content. Both  of  them  are  a  trigo  pattern. O,  this  two  image  has different  brightness  or  different  contrast. Besides  the  brightness  and  contrast, the  content  of  this  two  images so  be  exactly  the  same. But  if  we  use the  distance  you  will produce  a  very  huge  distance. From  here,  we  can  see  if  we  simply  apply the  ec  distance  to  compare  two  image, it  may  cause  some  problem. Because  this  two  image  in  fact, is  the  same  same  object. But  we  have  huge  value  of  the  equi  distance. Now,  how  to  solve  this  problem. One  way  to  solve  this  problem is  to  do  the  normalization. We  normalize  the  image  into  z  mean and  the  unit  variance  for  all  image. What  is  this  normalization  means? We  know  what  nomi  mean  and the  unit  variance  ga  here  is  a  v, we  compute  the  mean  of  every  component. Sum  all  this  value  together divided  by  the  number  of the  value  will  get  the  mean. Now,  then  after  we  get  the  mean  we subtract  the  mean  from  the  original  image. Then  we  get  a  centralized  image because  the  mean  of  FC  will be  zero  because  the  mean  is subtract  from  the  image  to the  mean  of  FC  comes  to  zero. This  centralize  the  image  into  Z  mean. Then  after  that,  we  normalize it  into  a  unit  standard  diviation, all  unit  mens  depends  on  which  one  you  use. There's  no  difference,  Sona, as  you  consistently  do  that. We  know  if  this  FC  is  centralized, If  you  multiply  them  together become  each  component  squares sum  them  together  right. If  we  divide  by  the  number  of the  element  in  this  two  v,  then  square  root, by  definition,  this  is  a  standard  deviation of  the  component  of  this  vector. Standard  deviation. Before  the  square  root  is  called  vis of  the  component  of  this  vector,  right? Now,  if  we  don't  divide  by  1/9, the  number  of  pixels, we  just  use  this  one  square  root, then  this  is  just  a  declition of  the  length  of  this  vector. We  can  say  we  can  normalize  the  image into  the  unit  length or  unit  standard  division, depends  on  which  one  you  use. You  can  use  divided  by nine  or  not  divided  by  nine. Now  as  you  consistently  use  in  every  image. Now  here,  we  will  produce  a so  called  normalize  the  image. The  image  minus  its  mean  divide  by  then  all divided  by  the  standard  variation of  the  element  of  the  image, then  we  produce  this  image. This  image  will  have zero  mean  and  unit  variance or  standard  variation, or  if  you  don't  divide  by  this  constant then  it  has  unit  lens in  terms  of  this  vector. Okay. After  we  do  such  of  the  normalization, then  we  will  find  that  this  two  image, in  fact,  they  are identical  after  the  normalization. If  we  normalize  this  image and  normalize  this  image, we  will  find  that  the  UCD  distance is  zero  after  the  normalization. We  can  say  this  normalization, will  make  a  big  difference. After  we  normalize  it, then  to  compute  the  distance, we  find  the  distance between  this  two  are  zero, so  they  are  identical,  the  same  object. Now,  if  we  compile  this image  with  a  large  one, it  appears  to  be  this  image  is close  to  this  image  compared  to  this  one. But  in  fact,  if  we  normalize  all  this  three, we  find  the  difference between  the  first  one  and  the  third  one, ski  larger  than  zero. After  you  normalize  it to  compute  the  equ  distance. This  pattern,  the  third  pattern are  different  from  the  first  tool. The  first  two  pattern  are  identical. If  we  do  a  proper  normalization, then  to  compute  the  Q  distance. Now,  why  this  normalized equ  distance  will  be  better  than the  original  distance  without normalization  in this  so  called  template  matching  approach. Now.  Here,  I  will  give  you another  example  of  the  normalization. If  we  don't  use  the  Euclid  distance, we  can  also  define a  so  called  correlation  coefficient. Mathematically, this  expression  is  the  definition, how  to  define  a  correlation  coefficient. Minus  its  mean  divided by  the  length  of  this  vector, then  this  is  the  definition of  the  correlation  coefficient. Now,  if  we  use  this  correlation  coefficient, then  we  can  also  easily  find the  first  image  and  the  second  image, the  correlation  is  max  value  of  the  one. They  are  identical,  they're  fully  correlated, where  the  correlation  between  first  one, the  third  one  will  be  much  smaller  than  one. They  are  not  correlated. We  can  also  use  the  so  called  correlation coefficient  to  measure the  similarity  between  two  image. If  two  image  is  similar, then  the  correlation  coefficient, absolute  value  of the  coordination  coefficient  will be  will  be  larger  value. If  they  are  similar, then  the  corre  absolute  value will  be  will  be  small. Now,  in  fact,  use this  correlation  coefficient. We  don't  need  to  normalize  the  image because  by  definition of  the  correlation  coefficient, we  already  do  the  normalization  of each  image  in  compute  the  correlation. By  definition  of  the  correlation  coefficient, we  need  minus  its  mean. We  need  to  divide  by  the  n  of  the  v. It's  a  process  of  the  normalization. Now,  here  we  will  show a  simple  sense  of  the  normalization, but  this  normalization  is  a  very, very  critical  concept  in all  this  recognition  or  machine  learning. In  our  AI  model, or  the  deep  learning  model, we  have  many  normalization  there. Why  we  need  such  kind  of  normalization. The  normalization  in  general  way,  in  fact, can  be  used  to  include all  process  of  the  recognition  process. Because  why  recognize  the  two  visual  object is  very  difficult  because  the  ation. Because  the  object  has  a  huge  ation. The  recognition  system  is  try  to reduce  this  variation  to make  very  different  variation, but  same  object  into a  same  exactly  same  thing. Then  we  solve  the  problem  of  the  recognition. This  is  why,  in  fact,  to  understand this  normalization  process is  extremely  important. Now,  if  we  have  this  nomation, we  can  very  easily  to  say  that  we  can normalize  the  image  then  to compute  the  nucle  distance. Then  we  can  do  the  comparison, we  can  do  the  matching  to  car  show. This  image  is  close  to  the  first  one, not  close  to  the  second  one. A. We  can  also  use  the  coefficient which  will  generate  the  same  result. Of  course,  if  you  use  a  distance, we  take  the  smallest  distance. If  we  use  a  correlation  coefficient, we  should  take  the  highest  correlation. The  highest  correlation, will  produce  the  smallest  distance. Because  the  correlation  itself is  already  a  normalization  process. If  we  use  the  equity  distance, we  need  to  first  to do  the  normalization  and  then  to compute  the  equity  distance of  the  normalized  image. Here,  the  normalization  is a  very,  very  important  concept. Many  technique  can  be reduced  to  some  of  the  normalization. Now,  here,  I  just  introduce  the  concept  of the  normalization  and  we will  see  why  we  need  normalization. The  normalization  will  generate we  change  the  result  cron. Here,  we  just  introduce a  simple  normalization. This  normalization  is  just normalize  the  brightness  of  the  image. Right? Normalize  the  green  never  into somehow  units  and  zero  mean, or  image,  the  same  zero  mean  and  units. This  is  just  one  simple  normalization for  the  brightness  of  the  image. Now,  given  a  visual  object, we  may  have  many  other  normalization, such  as  the  sc  position  and the  rotation  because the  same  object  in  different  images, they  have  different  size, but  they  are  same  object. We  need  to  do  some  scale  normalization. Same  object  may  appear  in the  image  at  a  different  place, different  population. But  they  come  from  the  same  object, we  should  somehow  normalize it  into  a  same  poolation. Also  the  rotation. We  have  many  other  kinds  of  normalizing, scale  position  and the  rotation,  normalization. Now,  the  visual  recoion  process is  try  to  solve  all  this  problem. Try  to  solve  all  this  variations. Same  object  have  different  brightenes. Same  object  can  have  different  sides. My  place  in  different  psation, may  have  different  poles, but  they  are  same  objects. How  can  we  recognize all  these  differences  into  the  same  object? We  need  to  do  some  kind  of  normalization. Now,  we  see  that  we  have  to  represent a  image  from  the  two  dimensional  function, or  a  matrics  into  a  vector. It  greatly  simplify our  mathematic  expression. Now,  then  the  nucle  distance  is just  a  thought  product  of  the  two  vor. All  the  distance  is just  thought  product  of  the two  v.  Of  this  vector is  a  difference  of  the  two  vector,  right? Okay.  So  great  to  simplify  our  expression. Now,  then  we  need  to understand  what  is  a  vector. A  vector  can  see  as a  point  in  this  n  dimensional  space. For  example,  n  is  a  number  of the  element  of  the  vector. It  is  it  equals  to  the  size  of  the  image. If  the  image  is  the  size  of  a  p  by  Q. Then  totally  we  have  p  times  Q px  this  is  equals  to  n. Image  is  a  vector, then  a  vector  is  n  dimension  is  a  point. Dimension  of  space. To  understand  that  is  to  help  us  to visualize  what  is  the  euclypal  distance? What  is  the  problem  we only  compute  the  eucypal  distance. Now,  to  understand  a  vector  is a  point  in  dimensional  space, we  can  very  easily  to visualize  in  two  dimensional  case. We  know  a  two  dimensional  vector has  two  components. If  this  two  components  are  indicated by  the  22  coordinate  value, then  obviously,  12  dimensional  vector  is just  a  position  of a  point  in  two  dimensional  space. This  is  also  a  tool  for high  dimensional  sit  dimension  or  even four  dimension  1,000  dimension. It  is  also  one  vector  or one  object  is  just  one  point in  this  high  dimensional  space. Now,  if  we  understand  that, we  will  visualize  what is  the  u  quid  distance. We  can  visualize  the  uc  distance  is just  a  geometric  distance that  for  give  simple  examples, suppose  this  is  just  the  two. That  means  we  have  22  dimensional  vector. We  have  two  different  objects  in  our  gallery, green  point,  green  dot, and  I  red  cross  indicate two  different  objects  stored in  our  data  set  in  our  gallery. Then  we  need  to  use these  two  different  objects  in  our  gallery  to recognize  o  unknown  object received  by  the  system. We  need  to  identify  what  is  this  one. This  one  input  unknown, it  is  come  from  the  green  dot or  come  from  the  red  cross. Then  if  we  use  the  UC  distance, then  it's  just  measure  this  two  distance. O  geometrically,  we  see this  unknown  one  is close  to  this  one  or  close  to  this  one. If  it's  close  to  cross, then  we  recognize  the  machine  will  recognize this  input  is  this  cross  object. Otherwise,  it  this  green  object. That's  the  simple.  Here, mathematically,  it  will  show  that. We  need  to  compute the  difference  between  this unknown  with  each  of  our  gallery. Then  convert  this  difference  into a  into  a  single  value  into  a  distance. Then  we  find  the  minimum  running  over this  over all  different  object  in  our  gallery. Then  the  find  the  minimum. This  is  the  index  is just  the  number  of the  object  in  our  data  set. Then  we  find  the  minimum  one  then to  recognize  from  which  object. Now,  this  is  a  geometric  need to  visualize  this  process. We  can  see  this  is very  intuitive,  is  very  straightforward. But  as  I  mentioned  that, especially  for  computer  vision for  visual  object. A  same  object  may  have  many different  for  many  different  sides, different  brightens,  different  pose, different  angle  and  so  on. But  all  of  them  come  from  the  same  object. In  our  g,  in  our  data set,  it's  very  ineffective. We  just  use  one  image to  represent  one  object. Now,  just  give  a  very  simple  example. We  want  to  identify  or  recognize unknown  received  one  is  a  car  or  a  bicycle. The  although  the  car are  different  from  bicycle, but  we  have  many  different  c. Even  a  car,  the  image can  take  from  the  front  come  from  the  side, or  different  size  different  con. So,  so  many  different, but  they  are  come  from  the  same  object, the  car,  not  a  bicycle. For  such  kind  of  the  car, how  can  we  just  use one  image  in  our  gallery to  represent  the  car? Then  if  we  receive  now, we  only  compare  to  one  image. Of  course,  this  is  unreasonable. It  will  cause  the  problem. This  is  very  obvious. In  the  practice  for a  same  object,  in  our  gallery, we  have  multiple  image or  template  to  represent  a  same  object. Now,  here,  this  example  is just  two  object  examples. We  have  object  one  and  object  two, but  for  one  object, we  have  many  variations, many  different  this  object  in  our  gallery. As  a  result,  if the  system  receive  one  unknown  input, we  need  to  recognize  this unknown  is  a  bicycle. But  for  car  object, we  have  many,  many  signs  in  our  gallery. For  bicycle,  we  have  also many  different  picture  in  our  gallery. Now,  in  such  a  case, how  to  do  the  compilation. In  such  a  case,  how  to do  a  template  matching. Now,  then  we  know  one  object  in our  gallery  or  in  our  dataset should  be  represented  by  multiple  ss. It  could  be  several  hundred  or  even  thousand, but  they  are  represent  a  same  object. In  such  a  case,  we convert  a  object  into  a  class. We  call  this  one  class. This  class  contains  meaning  samples. Each  sample  is  one  variation  of  a  object. Here,  we  convert  this  matching, all  this  comparison  into  a  classification. That  means  given  if a  system  receive  unknown  input, we  need  to  classify  this unknown  into  green  class, or  this  red  class. Each  class  represent  one  object. But  we  have  many  different  samples. This  is  a  classification. We  see  this  object  recognition is  some  of  the  classification because  each  object  is  represented  by  meaning multiple  different  samples  in  our  data  set. We  understand  what  is  the  classification. Why  we  need  the  classification? Because  we  need  somehow  to determine  the  unknown  w which  class  is  not  come  from  which  sample. Now,  if  we  understand  that, then  how  to  do  that,  or how  to  express  that  mathematically. Previously,  for  each  object, we  have  only  one  single  template in  the  gallery  image. We  compare  the  unknown  input  A with  each  of  the  gallery, different  indicate different  object  or  different  samples. Then  we  just  find  the  minimum  distance, which  produce  this  minimum  distance. Then  we  recognize  this  come  from  object, or  define  this  minimum  value of  this  G  is  the  k. But  now  for  this  one, this  is  the  index  of  different  sample. Now  we  have  so  many  samples, but  so  many  different  samples only  represent  two  different  objects. Here,  we  need  to  change  this  mathematics. This  gary  samples  may  have  different  class  I, we  have  green  class  and  red  class, all  class  one  and  class  two. We  have  indexes  of  the  class. Then  for  each  class, we  have  different  samples, we  have  the  different  samples. So  then  we  should minimize  this  distance  or  some  norm. Then  after  we  even  we we  gate  what  is  the  minimum  value. But  somehow  the  result should  take  argument  of  the  G  or  I. We  should  take  the  argument  of  the  I  into the  k  because  I is  the  index  of  the  different  class. G  is  index  of the  different  sample  within  the  class. Here  we  need  I  and  the  g  and also  this  minimize  overall  k, and  at  the  end, we  need  to  take  the  argument is  not  the  g  value, is  the  I  value  as  this  k. Now,  how  to  classify  this  unknown  received query  object  into  one  of  these  two  class. Sample  way  is  same  as  the  before. We  receive  unknown  one, we  just  compile  ey  samples  in  our  gallery. Same  as  before.  Again,  compile all  temperate  in  our  gallery. Then  find  the  minimum  sample  to  the  A. Then  take  the  index  of the  of  this  minimum  sample. As  the  output. Because  I  is  an  index  of  the  different  class. Here,  we  have  two  class. But  we  try  to  find the  distance  between  the  unknown  input. And  every  samples. Then  find  the  minimum  distance because  minimum  distance means  the  most  similar. Then  find  the  most  similar  samples. Then  find  this  most  similar  samples come  from  which  class. Then  this  I  will  be  the  output  of  result. I  come  from  class  I. Here  I  is  one  or  22  green  or  red. Now,  Such  of  the  very  straightforward  idea in  the  mathematics, formulate  in  this  way, is  called  merest  classph. This  is  a  very  famous  classph, one  of  the  most  used  class  fh before  the  deep,  the  traditional  one. You  can  see  is  very  straightforward. And  this  is  a  formal  description  description, what  is  the  first  nest  en  class  fh? I  will  not  go  through  it. You  can  read  it  by  yourself. Basically,  you  may  find  some difficult  to  understand  this  is because  we  have  the  sample x  yx2xn  in  our  training  data set  or  gary  data  set. We  have  many  samples. X  y  x  x  x  n, This  one  is  index  of  different  samples. But  then  we  have  class.  I  is  this. We  have  come  from  class  one  class two.  This  is  cta. Ca  is  class  able  to use  to  indicate  a  different  class. This  class  is  called  Omega  one or  two,  corresponding  to, we  have  the  green  class  or  red  class, we  have  the  c  or  bicycle, but  we  can  put  the  car  is  N  one. Bicycle  is  N  two. Ceta  one,  Ceta  two  is  two. But  if  you  represent  or Maw  the  car  and  the  bicycle. This  is  different  meaning  of  here. Basically,  we  compute  the  distance between  the  unknown  input  with  all  samples. This  running  to  all  samples. Then  find  the  minimum  distance  to  find the  nestle  sample  to  the  unknown  input. Then  to  find  this  k, this  k  is  somehow  come  from  the  Sta. Is  this  I,  here  is  a  k this  class  is our  final  decision  or  prediction. Output.  Anyway,  this  is  the  description. What  is  the  first  nestable  class? This  very  straightforward  idea is  most  widely  used  clasper  in  the  practice. Especially  before  the  Deplen, we  can  just  use  a  small  scale  of  the  program. In  many  application,  we  use simple  first  Ms  enable  clasp. Then  obviously  we  can  extend this  first  est  ne  class  into  unstable  clasp. We  can  compute,  for  example, three  mere  samples, and  then  in  this  threes  sample, which  class  has  a  majority  of  contains the  majority  of  ins  samples. Or  we  can  take  a  five  meres  class or  nine  merest  class  fh. Compute  more  than  one  nest  training  samples. Then  in  this  nest  train  samples, the  majority  come  from  which  class? We  can  extend  the  first  nest  neo  class  fh into  K  near  classp. We  can  have  the  so  called  K  classpa. This  is  just  a  simple  extension. Now, this  simple  idea  is  very  straightforward. We  can  very  easily  understand. Next  week,  we  will study  theoretically  derive  how this  metal  classp  comes from  the  theoretic  study, from  the  probable  theory to  get  the  optimal  class, how  this  me  neb  class  are  derived. It's  also  not  very  difficult. If  you  understand  very  basics, you  can  very  easily  to  understand  that. Here,  we  already  introduce the  nest  neighbor  class  fhere. Now  here  show  how  to do  the  nest  neighbor  classp  For  example, here  is  we  show  the  five  years  classp. Suppose  we  have  in  our  gallery, we  have  two  different  objects,  or  two  class. For  each  class,  we  have many  different  samples, so  we  have  ck  dot  and  black  dot. This  is  our  training  data, or  the  data  in  our  gallery. Now,  if  the  system  receive  input  is  this  X, position  of  the  eggs. To  dimensional  vector  is  just  a  position. The  five  nest  classe  is to  give  received  this  unknown  eggs, we  compute  the  distance  between eggs  and  all  these  samples one  by  one,  to  compute  them. Then  after  compute  all  this  distance  to find  the  five  smallest  distance. O55  sample  nest  to  the  unknown  one. Now,  then  in  this  five  merest  samples, we  find  that,  we  have three  samples  come  from  the  black  class. Only  two  come  from  the  red  class, then  we  classify the  unknown  x  into  black  class. This  is  the  principle  of the  five  mere  classify. Right? No,  but  nestable  class  here, we  have  some  other  problems. For  for  some  application. For  detection  problem,  we have  only  two  class. If  we  want  to  detect  the  car, then  we  have  the  purpose is  just  to  detect  the  car. Then  in  our  gallery, we  have  only  two  class  and  no  c,  not  the  car. But  for  each  class, we  have  minions  of  the  samples. Then  if  given  this  detecting  problem for  whatever  unknown  received  by  the  system, we  need  to  compute  the  distance  between  this unknown  into  every  these  samples. It  will  cause  the  problem. We  have  a  huge  number  of  the  computation. Because  all  twining  data, we  need  to  compute  the  distance  to  this unknown  11  by  one  overall  training  data. It  will  cause  that  problem. Another  problem  is  the  performance  of this  mere  classw  may  be  limited because  the  classification decision  only  depends on  a  few  training  samples  mere  to  that. The  majority  of  the  t  samples for  whatever  position, we  never  conside  it  in  the  decision. We  only  decide  based on  a  few  training  samples. This  may  cause  the  overfit  problem. Now  if  we  identify  such  a  problem, how  to  solve  the  problem. Then  we  will  derive  some  method. Now  this  one  will  move  to  next  week. That's. F  away. No.
