Good  evening,  everyone. The  assignment  already  have  posted  in  the  TO, you  must  already  have  S  eight. Because  the  assignment  is come  from  this  topic, the  main  net  reduction  are the  feature  extraction for  the  classification. Today,  I  will  first  go  through the  topic  eight  and  after  that, I  will  go  through  at  bit  of  the  topic seven  because  a  topic  seven  in  the  next  week, we  have  only  half  time. The  second  half  we  will  used  for  the  queens. Our  assignment  project  is  come from  the  dimension  reduction for  the  classification. During  the  nature  in  this  topic, I  may  also  somehow need  to  mention  about  the  requirements of  the  assignment  and what  you  need  to  need to  do  in  the  assignment. We  have  studied  the  prediction  and decision  and  all  the  classification of  automatic  system. So  we  say  how  to  do best  prediction  or  optimum  prediction  to minimize  the  error  rate  and  then  based  on the  statistics  or  PDF  to  design  our  clasph. After  that,  we  will  see  that the  clasp  cannot  directly work  on  the  road  data. So  even  the  deep  learning  is  all  the  and the  transformer  is  to extract  the  feature  and  handle  the  feature. After  that,  many  layers  of  the  network, then  the  final  only  the  final  yer is  for  the  classification. Here,  we  need  to  study  how  to extract  the  feature  for  the  classification. That  means  given  a  row  data, we  need  first  convert into  it  into  the  feature, and  then  we  input the  feature  into  the  classifier. Okay.  Today  we  will study  the  feature  extraction where  next  topic  seven is  the  feature  is  section. Now,  this  will  show the  importance  of  the  feature  extraction. In  fact,  in  all  this  computer  system or  even  an  ARP  system, the  deep  model  AI, the  most  critical  part  is the  feature  extraction  and convert  the  feature  into  different  form. So  this  is  even much  more important  than  the  final  prediction. Of  course, the  final  prediction  is  also  important, but  it  is  only  one  module. In  feature  extraction,  we  need multiple  modules  to  convert  the  feature. Okay.  So  the  feature  is  very  important. Of  course,  how  to  extract the  feature  from  the  road  data. Then  the  feature  for  the  classification. We  have  many  different  ways  to  do  that. So  we  can  have our  expert  knowledge  of our  human  knowledge  to  extract  the  feature. For  example, for  the  finger  point  recognition, we  know  that  the  key  feature  to  differentiate different  person  is  the  point  of the  reach  ending  and  bfication. So  we  will  extract  this  point, the  position  of  this  point  to  as  the  feature. This  is  based  on  our  human  knowledge. We  can  extract  the  feature from  the  image  or  from  the  road  data. We  can  also  utilize  some  property  of the  input  as  a  feature for  example  in  the  image  recognition  system. We  can  use  some  local  structure  such as  the  corner  and  blop  and  age so  first  to  extract  such  kind  of the  information as  a  feature  for  the  classification, not  use  all  pixurs  in  the  road  data,  right? Okay,  we  can  also  use some  image  global  structures such  as  the  fue  transform  and the  wavelth  transform  and  so that  it  is  called  global  transform because  one  output  of  the  transform  is computed  by  all  input  point,  right? So  it  is  a  kind  of  the  global  structure. Okay,  all  these  are  based  on some  kind  of  the  deterministic  message. We  don't  use  the  training  data to  determine  what  is  the  feature. So  we  will  skip  this  three  message. In  this  course,  I  will  focus  on the  way  to  extract the  feature  based  on  the  machine  learning. In  fact,  from  today  up  to  that, of  my  part  of  the  course, talking  about  the  feature  extraction. Even  say  transformer  is also  some  kind  of  feature  attraction, the  most  critical  part. So  in  machine  learning  in a  way  to  learn  the feature  from  the  training  data. But  today  and  the  next  topic  topic  seven, we  study  a  traditional  machine  learning, not  the  new  networks. Okay.  Now,  of  course, even  in  the  traditional  machine  learning, we  have  many  different  ways. In  this  course,  we  can  just  put  two  examples, one  for  feature  extraction, another  for  feature  section. For  the  feature  extraction, we  will  study  the  dimensional reduction  because  this  is somehow  it  take around  several  years  or  ten  years, it  is  the  mainstream  in  the  machine  learning or  in  the  computer  before  the  deep  learning. We  study  how  to  reduce  the  dimension  of the  road  data  and  then  take it  as  the  feature  for  the  classification. Here,  give  example. For  example,  given  input  image. Image  is  a  two  D  ray. So  in  a  network  or  in  our  machine, we  can  first  convert this  two  D  ray  into  one  vector. This  is  always  possible. We  can  arrange  y  pixel  as one  element  in  a  vector  because it  is  more  convenient  to  hand the  vector  compile  with  the  matrix. Especially  this  matrix  is different  from  the  matrix  in  the  transformer. In  the  transformer,  in  fact,  it  is  a  vector. Only  every  element  is also  a  vector  feature  vector, but  different  token  in the  transformer  is  just  one  component in  one  dimensional  vector. Anyway,  we're  talking  about  that. Basically,  we  first  convert this  image  into  a  vector. We  have  the  different  name  such  as flat  matrix  into  a  vector. Basically  each  element  in this  vector  is  just  one  pixel. Of  course,  although  I  display the  corner  image  because it's  more  impressive. In  fact  here  we  talk about  the  green  level  image. Here,  suppose  the  image  size  is  300  by  200. Altogether,  we  have  60,000  of  the  pictures. We  put  every  picture as  an  element  in  this  vector. Then  we  have  a  60,000  dimensional  vector. Now  this  use  a  vector  to contain  all  row  datas. Now,  given  such  a  high  dimensional  vector, we  want  to  reduce  the  dimensionality  of this  vector  from  60,000  to  form,  just  60. It  is  1,000  times  of the  reduction  in  terms  of the  number  of  the  element  in  this  vector. Now,  how  to  do  that?  If  we use  any  linear  method, all  menial  method  can  always  express s  that  we  need  this  x  multiply  matrix. If  this  matrix  five  is  60,000  by  60, transpose  multiply  x  will produce  60  dimensional  vector. This  is  a  pretty  car.  You  just  need  to understand  what  is  the  effect  of the  matrix  multiplication.  That's  all. This  is  a  simple  way to  do  a  dimensional  net  reduction. Now,  it  is  also  called  a  miniar  reduction. Now  Aniar  transform  alliar  operation can  always  represent  by  this  form. It  is  just  multip  matrix. For  example,  full  transform is  also  much  p  matrix. The  element  of  this  matrix Pi  is  predefined  by  our  human,  right? It  is  e  p  minus  two  minus  two  Pi  two  Pi plus  u  n  plus  one  dimension  e minus  minus  two  Pi  n over  b  n  times  this  element,  then  get  this. So  anyway,  even  the very  famous  fue  transform  is just  one  specific  case  in  this  expression where  the  element  is a  specific  value,  we  predefined  it. So  here,  this  is  one  way  to  do the  feature  extraction  or reduce  the  high  dimension  into  no  dimension. Now,  then  based  on this  multiplication of  a  weighting  matrix  five, what  is  the  effect  we  can  have? Scale  show  some  effect. First  of  all,  it  has  feature  scaling because  we  know  this  multiplication, we  produce  one  result  of  this  multiation, one  venue  is  the  weight  sum  of  all e.  The  weight  is  in  this  matrix  five. Each  single  venue Here  is  the  weight  sum  of  all  input. If  we  put  different  weights, then  we  scale  the  different  element in  X  differently, use  the  different  weights. It  can  have  some  kind  of  the  feature  scaling, we  scaling  the  original  fur, original  data  in  different  way. Okay.  So  obviously, for  important  component  of  the  eight, then  we  need  to  put  a  large  weight. For  unimportant  input, we  can  put  a  small  weight  in  this  f.  Okay, so  this  is  the  finite  scan. Then  we  can  use this  multiplication  to  implement a  dimensionality  reduction  because if  this  p  is  not  a  square  matrix, it  is  a  rectangle, then  it  will  reduce  the  dimension,  right? We  can  use  this  one  as  a  feature  extraction. The  feature  extraction means  the  extract  feature, we  have  multiple  feature, but  every  single  feature  is the  combination  of  all or  original  feature  or  original  data. This  is  called  extraction  because every  element  is  depends  on  all  inputs. Different  A  is  just  different  weights to  combine  the  input  into  different  feature. Here  we  the  feature  extraction. This  transform  parameter, as  I  mentioned  in  this  f  matric  five, if  we  our  human  to  design  it, we  can  design  many  different kind  of  the  transform. Wave  transform  and  full  year  transform or  co  same  transform. O  is  just  this  fine, use  the  element  a  different  value. We  design  it,  then  we  can  have the  different  kind  of  the  transform. But  here  we  will  learn  that to  determine  this  fine  is not  based  on  our  human  knowledge. We  determine  this  fine  based on  a  set  of  the  training  data. For  example,  in  the  face  recognition, we  can  use  the  face  image  training  data to  arn  what  is the  optimum  f  or  a  good  f  to  do such  kind  of  a  dision  meter  reduction or  feature  extraction. Here,  we  will  study the  first  method  is called  principal  component  analysis. This  is  a  very,  very  famous  method, similar  to  the  fue  transformer  or  coming, so  popular,  very important  technique  or  method. It  is  not  just  used  in computer  washing  or  used  in machine  learning  in  the  pattern  regulation. This  PCA  principle  component  analysis is  applied  in  many  different  areas. In  all  data  analysis, meaning  data  analysis  area, you  use  this  principle  analysis  PC  A. Now  here  we  are  studying  what  is this  PC  principle  component  analysis. I  will  regard  this  PCA  or principle  analysis  as  one  method  of the  machine  learning  because  it  will  arn some  parameter  based  on a  set  of  the  training  data,  right? So  first,  we  need  to have  a  set  of  the  training  data. Suppose  we  have  that  t  sample  one, two,  three,  four  up  to  Q. We  have  Q  training  samples. Each  20  sample  is already  arranged  in  a  um  vector. As  the  previous  nine. X  one  is  n  dimensional  coun  vector and  x  two  and  so  are  to  x  Q. Now,  anyway  after  we  have  a  Q, training  samples  of  the  dimension  is. First,  we  meet  solve a  problem  is  how  to  find  one  sample, not  inside  of  this  t  sample, anyway  one  point  because one  sample  is  a  point  in  dimensional  space. We  know  if  this  x  is  a  two  dimensional  space, is  just  one  point  in  a  plane. If  the  three  dimensional  space  is also  one  point  in our  living  room,  three  dimensional  space. So  Each  20  sample is  a  point  in  dimension  space. Now,  we  want  to  find  one  single  point  x  zero. We  just  use  this  one  single  point  to best  represent  all  the  Q  training  data. Then  what  is  this  point  x? If  we  want  to  just  use  a  single  point  x to  represent  all  xi  with  i  from  one  to  Q, then  the  difference  of  them  is  the  ro. Is  use  one  point  to represent  the  ro  of us  one  point  represent  the  X. Then  of  course,  this  arrow  is  also  indsion. After  we  use  the  norm to  convert  it  into  one  value, it  is  square  ro  and then  with  su  over  all  training  data. So  this  is  the  sum  of the  squat  arrow  of use  one  point  represent  all  in  data,  right? So  this  is  pretty  Kea. Now,  if  we  have  such  kind  of the  sum  of  the  squared  or  mean  square  arrow, because  mean  is  just  divided  by  Q, is  exactly,  no  difference or  mean  square  arrow,  right? So  we  have  this  mean  square  arrow. Of  course,  we  have  one  reason  to  find a  single  point  so that  it  can  minimize  this  mean  square. Now,  represent  this  two  norm  as the  dot  product  of  the  two  vectors, all  vector  transform  times  itself. Then  this  is  the  two  norm. So  we  want  to  find  x zero  to  minimize  this  expression. We  can  very  easily  to  get  it  is  the  result  is the  mean  or  average  of  all  training  data. From  here,  we  can  see  what  is the  meaning  of  the  average of  asset  of  the  data? From  here  we  can  see  average  of asset  of  the  data  is  the  point, I  will  minimize  the  mean  square  arrow. Of  all  training  sample  to  this  point. Man  square  arrow, Ather  interpretation of  the  mean  square  arrow  is  also the  the  square  distance of  all  twining  data  to  this  point. The  sum  of  the  squared  distance of  all  t  data  to  this  point, but  it  is  a  squared  distance. I  way  Ming  is a  minimize  of  this  square  distance. From  last  week, we  also  learned  that  the  mean  is  also a  maximum  likelihood  estimate of  the  center  of  a  g  PDF. Right?  Okay.  Here,  to get  this  result,  it  is  very  simple. We  just  take  the  differentiation  of this  expression  against  x  zero. Then  make  this  deferciation  x  to  zero, we  can  immediately  get  this  result. So  I  just  skip  that. This  is  a  very  tribal  very  easily, we  can  gate  this  result  mathematically. Okay.  Now,  after  we  find  this  point, then  we  subtract  all  training  data, we  subtract  this  point from  all  this  training  data  to  centralize all  tinse  samples  and  then  put all  this  centralized  training  sample into  a  matrix. A  trainee  sample  is  represented  by  a  matrix. By  doing  so  is  just  to simplify  some  symbols  later, we  can  f  easier  to  further  derive  Sams. Okay.  So  anyway,  we  have a  big  x  to  represent or  centralized  Chinese  samples  here. Now,  after  we  find  one  point  and  then  we  use this  point  to  centralize the  training  data  into  this  x  curve. Then  next  one,  we  want  to  find  one  dimension. This  X  curve  is  also  n  dimension  data. It's  just  the  original  data  minus  its  be. It's  also  n  dimensional  vector. Now,  in  this  n  dimensional  vector, we  want  to  find  one  dimension. Use  just  one  single  dimension  to represent  this  n  dimensional  data, then  what  is  this  dimension? The  best  dimension. One  cynical  dimension  can  be used  to  represent  the  high  dimensional  data, the  dimensional  data,  x  i. We  use  one  dimension. Now,  here  we  see one  dimension  is  a  vector  pi. Because  as  I  already  repeat  many  times, one  dimensional  vector  is a  point  in  a  dimensional  space. This  point  is  specified by  component  in  this  vector. Or  each  component  of  this  vector is  the  value  of this  point  in  different  coordinate. One  coordinate  is  also  a  vector. A  point  is  also can  be  represented  by  a  vector. One  dimension  is  represented  by  one  vector. But  if  we  take  a  vector  as  the  coordinate, We  know  what  is  a  coordinator  in two  dimensional,  we  have  X  and  Y. One  point  is  a  vector. A  coordinator  is coordinate  axis  is  also  a  vector. Only  the  vector  is  10, laser  is  a  zo  one. But  dimension  is  a  vector can  serve  as  a  coordinate  axis. But  this  vector  should use  a  unit  length  vector. We  use  a  unit  length  vector  five  to  represent axis  of  take  this  as  a  coordinate  axis. Now,  what  is  the  best  dimension  of  this  five? If  we  have  one  dimension represent  by  one  vector, then  the  high  dimension  of  data xi  multiplied  by  five  transpose  in  this  way, then  we  just  one  single  value. We  know  the  dot  product  of  the  two  vector. Row  vector  multiplied  by common  vector  is  just  a  single  value. What  is  the  meaning  of  this  single  value? Now,  this  single  value is  meaning  is  we  project this  high  dimensional  data Xi  into  this  vector. Now,  this  vector  is  a  units. If  we  take  it  as  axis  of  a  coordinate, then  it  is  just  the high  dimensional  data  as  a  value of  this  high  dimensional  data along  this  vector,  It  is  AI. This  AI  is  just  a  single  value. You  need  to  somehow  visualize it  to  understand  this  one. Otherwise,  in  the  past  year, meaning  student  complain. My  ture  has  so  many  mathematics, then  confuse  this  mathematics, but  if  you  see  all this  mathematics  is  very  simple. But  you  need  to  understand the  physical  meaning  and  visualize  it. After  this  modification,  what  do  we  get? What  is  the  physical  meaning  of  this  one? This  is  very  important. This  A  I  just  one  single  value. It  is  a  value  of  this  dimensional  vector along  this  vector  or  along  this  dimension. Different  vector  will  show different  direction  direction,  right? In  this  dimensional  space. Okay.  Anyway,  it  is easy  to  understand  this  AI is  just  a  single  value,  right? Okay.  Now,  this  AI  is  just  a  single  value, it  is  a  component  of  the  five  along the  component  of  this x  along  the  direction  five. It's  just  a  single  value. Now,  if  we  just  use  a  single  value, it  is  the  one  dimensional  data. If  we  want  to  use this  one  dimensional  data  AI to  represent  the  Xi, what  is  the  representation? Or  if  we  want  to  use this  one  dimensional  data, only  single  value  AI  to reconstruct  the  high  dimensional  data. Then  what  is  the  arrow  to  use the  recontract  high  dimensional  data to  represent  this  Xi? Then  the  arrow,  of  course, is  xi  minus  this  AI  multiplied  by  this  f. AI  is  just  a  single  value, but  multiply  by  five becomes  dimensional  vector. Then  we  can  make  the  difference. Because  the  meaning  of  the  AI  is  a  value along  this  project  to  this  vector. This  is  dimensional  vector. Then  we  have  this  difference. This  difference  is  the  difference between  the  original  high  dimension  of the  xi  and  the  one  dimensional  AI recontract  the  high  dimensional  vector. So  anyway  mathematical  we  understand, the  two  n  dimension can  make  the  difference,  right? So  this  is  a  representation  arrow. Use  one  dimension  to represent  high  dimension, or  we  call  it  the  reconstruction  ro. We  use  one  dimension  to recontract  the  high  n  dimension  and use  this  h  n  dimension  to  represent  this  X  i, then  what  is  the  difference? Then  this  is  ro,  right? We  call  it  the  representation  arrow, or  the  reconstruct  a. Now,  convert  this  arrow, difference  of  the  two  vector into  a  single  venue. Again,  we  use  the  two  norm. R  two  norm,  in  fact, is  a  bot  product  of  these  two  vectors. Then  with  some  this  arrow over  all  training  samples. Available  t  samples  here, this  expression  is  just  for  120  sample. On  with  some  over  all  training  data  we  have. Then  again, is  a  mean  square  arrow or  some  of  the  squared  arrow, over  all  training  data. Then  to  find  one  single  dimension  five, to  represent  the  high  dimension, the  best  dimension  five,  of  course, is  minimize  this  recontraction  arrow, or  the  representation  error. E  now  dimension  to  represent  high  dimension. Right?  This  is  pretty  clear. Next  step  is  just  simply  to  find  the five  that  will  minimize  this  recontction  era. Because  this  is  what  we  have. This  is  the  er  over  all our  training  data,  right? Okay,  now,  we  have the  expression  of  this  recontraction  era. Use  one  dimension  two  AI to  recontract  the  high  dimension. Okay,  what  is  the  recontraction  era  here? This  expression  over  all  our  training  data? Now,  to  find  it,  we  first to  multiply  these  two  terms  together. We  know  this  one  multiply  this  one, then  it  is  the  sum  of  the  four  term. The  first  term,  of  course, is  x  transpose  times  x  i. So  it  is  to  norm  of  x. Anyway,  if  you  write as  x  transpose  times  x  is  exactly  the  same. This  is  the  first  term. But  then  the  other  term in  fact  is  exactly  the  same. All  other  term  is  A  squared. Because  based  on  definition,  for  example, Xi  multiplied  by  this  one, Then  five  multiplied  by  this  one  is  AI, so  it's  Ai  square. So  all  other  three  terms  is  Ai  square. Combine  them  together  is  just  one  A  square. Minus  A  square. I  go  to  this  application. If  you  go  to  it,  it  is  very  straightforward. We  have  one  positive  AS  square, two  negative  AS  square. Then  combine  them  together is  a  minus  A  S  square. Anyway,  we  get  this  one. Based  on  this,  we can  very  easily  get  this  exp. Now,  this  mathematics  is  very  simple. I  only  use  mathematics  that  can tell  us  the  minus  to  help  us  understand. I  never  use  the  p  mathematic  derivation. Now,  after  we  have  this such  of  the  simple  expression. Now,  what  is  the  AI? AI  is  computed  by  H.  This  is  pretty  clear, it's  a  projection  of the  high  dimension  data  into a  single  dimension  one  dimension. If  we  replace  this  AI by  this  expression,  then  we  get  this  one. We  get  this  one.  Because  AI  is f  transpose  times  x  curve.  Okay. We  get  this  expression. Now,  then  we  will  find  this  expression  if we  put  this  fi  outside  of  this  submission. Of  course,  we  can  put  outside  of submission  Because  this  submission is  over  different. Well,  over  different  this  p is  a  constant  for  whatever  value  of  the  i, we  always  have  the  same  f.  Of  course, can  put  outside  of  the  submission. Then  we  get  this  expression. This  blue  cal  one. Then  from  this  blue  al  one,  we  will  say, what  is  the  expression inside  of  this  bracket? It  is  the  co  variance  matrix of  the  twining  data. A  twining  sample  minus  the  mean,  then  square, then  sum  over  together, then  all  average  over  all  twining  data. This  is  the  concept  of  the  variance. Now  for  the  vector. In  this  x  vector, this  is  a  covalence  matrix. So  we  simplify  this  presion as  the  covalence  matrix, or  the  scyto  matrix, because  we  use  all  training  data because  this  Q  is  over  all  training  data. So  this  is  also  called  the  total  scat  matrix, or  it  is  a  covalence  matrix of  all  training  data. By  definition,  it  is  computed  ga.  Now, X  mit  U  is  X  curve. Anyway,  this  is  scyt  matrix, total  scytmt,  or  covalence  matrix. So  we  have  this  presion,  right? So  here  in  the  center  is just  the  coven  matrix  over all  training  data.  This  is  pretty  clear. Now,  then  we  want  to  find  the  five, I  minimize  the  mean  square  aro. Well,  this  the  first  term is  nothing  to  do  with  the  vector  five, whatever  five  you  choose. The  first  term,  the  value  is  always  the  same. So  minimize  the  mean  square  o  is  the  same  as maximize  this  blue  one because  it's  minus  right? We  only  need  to  fend  the  f. It  maximize  this  blue  cal  explosion. To  maximize  it,  but  don't forget  this  five  is  unit  length  vector. Now,  here,  we  want  to maximize  this  blue  colon. It  is  also  very  simply  we  can  get why  we  constrain  this  pi  is  a  unit  in. Otherwise,  the  nth  of  the  f  is  larger, this  one  is  always  larger. Then  you  cannot  find a  convert  maximum  point  because  the  f  is, this  expression  is  always  larger. We  need  bind  the  f, maximize  this  one  and  the  condition, the  the  nth  of  this  vector  is. We  need  to  find  the  direction  of  the  f, not  find  how  what the  length  of  the  f.  Of  course, the  length  is  larger, then  this  one  will  be  larger. So  we  have  convert our  problem  into  find  the  f, maximize  this  blue  c  one  and the  condition  the  length  of  the  f  is  one. This  is  a  typically conditional  optimization  problem. We  find  the  maximum  value  of  this  expression and  the  condition  the  nth  of  the  f  is  one. In  the  mathematics,  we  have  a  very popular  will  known method  granger  optimization  method. It  can  convert  the  conditional  optimization into  unconditional  optimization. We  want  to  maximize this  term,  and  this  condition. Then  this  condition  is  justified transpose  five  minus  one  equals  to  zero. We  put  this  condition  here. So  minus  num  here, then  we  maximize  this  one, then  will  minimize  this  one, that  means  that  five  transpose  times  five, we  approach  to  one. Anyway,  this  is  also no  method  is  a  optimization  by such  a  way  we  convert a  conditional  optimization into  unconditional  optimization. Anyway,  what  we  need  to do  is  to  find  the  five, I  maximize  this  expression. Without  aiming  condition. Maximize  this  expresion. Now,  from  the  icons, we  can  solve  this  problem. We  take  the  differentiation  of this  expression  against  the  five, what  we  want  to  get. Then  k  this  differentiation  equals  to  zero. Then  we  have  the  equation. Then  solve  this  equation, the  result  of  the  five, we  maximize  this  expression. Now  we  have  the  differentiation. We  can  get  this  result. The  five  square  becomes  25, this  five  square  becomes  to  25. This  number  diferciation  against  50. So  anyway,  we  get  this  one. This  is the  differentiation  of  this  expresion. This  differentiation  equals  to  zero. So  we  have  the  equation. The  next  step  just solve  this  equation  to  get  the  five. This  equation,  if  we  move this  negative  term  into  the  right  side, then  we  get  this  equation. Now,  solve  this  equation. Then  this  one  is  very  familiar. We're  very  familiar  with  this  equation. What  is  this  equation? This  equation  innear  algebra  is  very, very  fundamental  and  important  sis, is  the  eigenvector  and eigenvalue  of  the  matrix  HT. Given  en  matrix  ST. If  we  can  find  a  phi  and Nanda  satisfy  this  equation, then  this  phi  is  called  ichen  vector. This  Nanda  is  called  ichen  value. In  thenar  algebra. O  textbook  of  thenar  algebra  must  introduce this  ien  vector  and chen  value  because  it  is  very  important. Now,  from  the  mathematical  course, of  course,  we  know  what  is  the  eigenvector. What  is  the  eigenvalue,  whatever  vector  f, and  single  single  scar  ue  number  site is  fine  in  this  equation  is  called eigenvector  and  eigenvalue  of  this  matrix  is t.  Then  from  this  definition, then  we  can  give  a  matrix. Then  we  solve. We  can  find  what  is  the  five. What  is  the  numbda.  Right? If  this  ST  is  given, we  can  always  find  the  pi  and  the  number. And  v  from  this  mathematic  deflation, then  how  to  find  it, then  we  can  derive some  method  to  get  what  is  the  f, what  is  the  number. Now,  but  clear.  We  are not  studying  the  linear  algebra. We  only  need  to  understand the  physical  meaning  of  this  linear  algebra. First  of  all,  this  equation,  you  will  see, I  have  only  one  equation, but  we  have  two  unknowns  pi and  nod  how  to  solve  it. But  in  fact,  in  principle, we  can  very  easily  see  it  is  solvable. This  is  not  just  one  equation. This  is  unequation. If  this  S  is  by  tri. Because  this  multiply  the  first  role  multiply this  one  equals  to the  first  component,  we  have  one  equation. The  second  rule,  then  we  get  a  signal, we  have  n  equation. Now,  in  this  n  equation, we  have  known  and  unknown. Then  we  have  n  plus  one  unknown. Then  we  cannot  find  the  definite  solution. But  we  can  find  because  in  the  pi, it  is  not  known, we  have  only  n  minus  one  unknown. Y.  Because  the  nth  of  the  five  is  y. And  this  condition, we  have  only  n  minus  one  unknown. The  one  is  just  one  minus  the  square  root of  the  sum  of  the  square of  all  others,  right? So  in  the  five,  we  have  only  n minus  unknown  because  we have  the  condition  here. So  we  have  n  minus  one  unknown  plus  one, we  have  unknowns,  but  we  have  equation  group. Of  course,  we  can  solve  this  equation  group. This  is  the  linear  equation,  right? I  don't  teach  you  how  to  compute  it. I  just  want  to  tell  you  this  is  a  solvable. Anyway  we  can  gag  what  is  five,  what  is. By  giving  a  equation  show  here. Now,  in  thenar  algebra,  it  is  well  known. This  is  very  important,  very fundamental  one  in  the  near  algebra. But  after  you  complete the  course  of  the  linear  algebra, you  may  still  find confuse  what  is the  meaning  of  this  eigenvector. What  is  the  meaning  of  the  eigen  value? Why  they  are  so  important. Now,  here  I  will  show  what  is the  physical  meaning  of  this  eigen, what  is  the  physical  meaning  of  eigenvalues. First  of  all,  to  understand the  phasic  mean  of  the  five. We  need  to  know  from  this  derivation. It  can  show  that  what  is  eigenvector  five? Eigenvector  five  is  a  vector that  maximize  this  term. This  is  very  clear.  We  have this  f  is  because  we want  to  maximize  this  one. Then  to  understand  the physical  meaning  of  this  five is  to  understand  the  phasic meaning  of  this  expression. Then  what  is  this  expression? Because  the  five  maximize  this  expression. Now,  from  here,  if  this  ST  is  a  conce  matrix, we  use  the  deflation  of the  conce  matrix  and  then make  the  pi  go  inside  of this  summin  then  we'll  get  this  expression. Now,  from  this  expression,  it  is  clear  show, what  is  the  meaning  of  the  i.  Pi  is  a  vector. We  try  to  project all  dining  data  into this  vector  to  this  vector. If  we  project  this  high  dimension of  data  xi  to  this  vector, it  becomes  just  one  dimension  of  data. Then  this  one  dimension  of  data  is also  is  already  centralized. From  here,  we  can  see  what  is the  definition  what  is the  meaning  of  this  expression. AI,  the  mean  of  the  AI  is  zero. Why  B  we  already  minus  the  average. A  group  of  the  number minus  mean  square,  then  average. This  is  the  community  diflation of  the  varian  give  a  group  of  the  data, how  to  compute  the  variance. This  is  the  vari.  Here,  we can  see  this  expression, the  five  maximized  is  the  variance of  this  high  dimensional data  project  to  this  vector. That  means  we  can  have  meaning  vectors. If  we  project  the  high dimension  into  this  vector, then  it  becomes  to  one  dimensional  data, then  we  can  compute  what  is  the  variance. But  if  this  vector  is  the  eigenvector, the  variance  is  a  maximum. The  variance  we  the  variance of  the  other  vectors. This  is  the  physical  meaning of  the  eigenvector. Eigenvector  is  the  vector. If  we  project  the  high  dimension  to  it, the  variance  is  a  maximum, is  ger  than  other  vectors. This  is  pretty  clear,  right? Now,  then  what  is the  physical  meaning  of  the  eigen  value? Then  we  see  that eigen  vector  maximize  the  variance. Then  this  variance, what  is  this  variance  from the  diflation  of the  eigenvector  and  eigenvalue. The  first  expression,  the  first  equation  is just  mathematic  dfation  of the  eichen  vector  and  eigen  value. Mathematic  diation. Now,  if  we  multiply five  transpose  at the  both  sides,  we  get  this  one. Then  from  here,  we  can  see this  one  equals  to  number. Eigenvalue.  Then  what  is  the  eigenvalue? Eigen  value  is  this  expression is  what  the  f  try  to maximize  is  the  variance of  the  data  project  to  this  eigenvector. It  is  pretty  clear. What  is  the  physic  meaning  of  the  eigenvalue? Eigenvalue  is  the  variance  of  men high  dimensional  data  project to  its  corresponding  eigenvector. While  eigenvector  is  maximize this  variance.  This  is  pretty  clear. Now,  from  here,  then  we  can  see  because  if we  project  the  data  into  the  eigenvector  f, it  will  maximize  this  variance. Then  maximize  this  variance from  previous  tes  it's  clear. I  will  minimize  the  recontuction  era. Then  if  we  use  more  than  one  dimension, more  than  one  vector, how  to  reduce the  high  dimensional  data into  null  dimension. It's  a  primer. If  we  try  to  find a  eigen  vectors  corresponding  to  a, not  just  eigen  value  to  form  a  matrix, then  this  N  by  A  matrix, if  we  use  to  multiply the  input  to  get the  null  dimensional  data  M  dimensional  data. This  will  minimize  the  reconstruction  a. Now,  if  y  is come  from  the  high  dimensional  X multiplied  by  this  five, this  five  is  smaller  than  n, so  we  reduce  the  n  dimensional  data x  into  the  dimensional  data  y. We  reduce  the  dimension. This  is  a  dimensional  reduction. This  reduced  dimension  dimensional  reduction, use  this  now  dimensional  data, it  has  minimum  reconstruction. If  we  use  this  now  dimensional  data  y  to recontract  the  high  dimensional  x  height. Then the  reconstruction  era  will  be  minimized. Now,  given  Y,  how  to  no  dimensional  Y, How  to  get  the  high  dimensional  same  as  x  i. Then  given  we  just  multiply, then  it  becomes  to  dimension,  right? Y  i  is  dimension. If  we  five  multiply  by  h, it  becomes  to  dimension, same  dimension  as  the  X. Then  because  we  do this  dimensional  reduction first  minus  its  mean, then  we  plus  its  mean, then  it  becomes  to  recontract the  high  dimensional  x  i. It  is  a  recontract  xi, we  use  x.  X  is  the  high  dimension  data, but  recontracted  by  no  dimensional  data  y. Then  the  ro  web  is the  difference  between  X  and  X. This  is  the  reconstruction  ro. Now,  if  we  choose  the  eigen  vector corresponding  to  not  just  eigen  value, then  this  reconstruction  will  be  minimized. Then  what  is  the  PCA? Here,  the  process  of  the  PCA  is  prey. If  we  want  to  reduce the  n  dimension  into  dimension, then  we  use  twining  data  to  compute  the  total sket  metric  or  con  metric over  all  twining  data. Then  find.  Eigenvector  corresponding  to  a, not  just  eigenvalue,  to have  this  eigenvector  matrix because  this  matrix  contains  a  eigenvectors. This  is  the  eigenvector  matrix. Then  we  use  this  eigenvector matrix  multiply  multiply to  n  dimensional  data, then  become  2:00  A.M.  Dimensional  data. This  is  the  PCA, principal  component  analysis. Now,  as  I  mentioned,  the  recontraction  arrow is  a  difference  between  x  and  x, x  height  is  recontracted  by  y. So  it  is  from the  y  multiplied  by  this  five  again, but  here  no  transpose. This  one  has  transpose. Then  we  have  high  dimensional  data because  before  we  do  that, we  minus  its  mean,  then  he  also  process  mean, this  difference  is  the  arrow. Then  the  mean  square  arrow  of the  two  t  norm  of this  arrow  will  be  recontraction  arrow, it  will  be  minimized. Now,  if  you  use this  Delta  is  equal  to  this  one, then  it's  transposed  multiplied  by  eight, then  get  the  expression, we  can  very  easily  to  derive  mathematically, it  is  the  sum  of  the  eigenvalue, not  used  in  this  eigen  vector. It's  the  remaining  eigenvalue. Here,  I  didn't  show the  mathematic  formula  from this  one,  how  to  get  this. This  is  purely  mathematics. There's  no  new  concept  we  need  to  learn. So  I  just  ignore  it. If  you  are  interested  is extremely  simple,  not  difficult. But  anyway,  we  will  show  that. The  reconstruction  arrow  is the  eigenvalue  not  used  in  the  eigenvector. This  is  why  if  we  choose the  eigen  vector  is  corresponding  to  A, not  just  the  eigen  value, then  this  summation  of the  remaining  eigenvalue  of  course will  be  minimized.  Right? Okay.  Now  from  here, we  can  say  that  if  this  eigenvector, we  utilize  the  eichenvector of  all  non  zero  eigenvalues. Then  the  reconstruction  arrow, the  sum  of  the  remaining  eigenvalues, if  all  are  zero,  then the  reconstruction  arrow  could  be  zero. Here  it  is  pretty  car. If  no  dimension  data recontracted  high  dimension  data, the  arrow  could  be  zero. If  we  utilize  all  eigenvector corresponding  to  non  zero  eigenvalues. Now,  in  the  mathematics, we  can  very  easily  to  see  that  because the  matrix  ST  is computed  by  our  training  samples. If  we  have  Q  training  samples. Now,  if  this  Q  minus one  is  smaller  than  dimension, and  then  the  rank  of this  matrix  is  just  Q  minus  one. This  is  also  very  straightforward. Then  if  the  rank  of  ST  is  only  Q  minus  one, then  the  matrix  ST has  a  Q  minus  one  non  zero  i  values. If  this  Q  is  much  smaller  than  dimension  n, we  can  reduce  the  dimensional  data into  Q  minus one  dimensional  y  without ing  information  no  because the  reconstruction  arrow  could  be  zero. Now,  this  is  pretty  clear. We  can  understand  this  we suppose  all  training  data  is  on  a  plane. Okay.  But  this  plane  if  we measure  this  plane  in  se  dimensional  space, all  point  has  three  coordinate,  right? If  all  point  is  all  tiny  data  is  consist of  a  point  in  our  dimensional  space. O  vn  space  dimension, we  can  imagine  it,  we  can  understand  that. But  if  all  this  point is  a  plan  happened  to  be  a  plan. Then  if  we  reduce  the  dimensional  space, just  use  this  plane. Then  all  this  data  is  exactly  the  same. If  we  reduce  the  three  dimensional  data into  two  dimension, then  the  reconstruction  era  will  be. Because  all  the  data  is intrinsic,  only  two  dimension. A  data  is  on  a  plane. But  we  may  the  value  of  the  data, we  can  use  the  three  dimensional  space. This  is  pretty  clear,  we  can  understand  it. This  is  because  if  all  data  is  on  a  plane, then  we  can  find  one  dimension. Also  go  out  to  this  plane. Then  all  data  The  value  along  this  dimension, also  go  to  this  plane. What  is  the  value? Or  the  training  data  along  the  dimension, also  go  to  this  plane. Or  the  training  data  are exactly  the  same  value. A  vector  also  go  to  this  plane. Then  the  variance  will  be  zero. The  variance  is  zero, then  the  eigen  value  will  be  zero. This  direction  must  be  one  eigen  vector. Must  be  one  eigenvector. Then  of  course,  reconstruction is  we  can  use  from many  different  aspects  to understand  this  result. Because  after  we  understand  this  result, we  will  see  this  result is  very  straightforward. It's  just  intuition. It  is  nothing  magic. Now,  on  ST  is  our  coven  matrix. From  the  definition  of  the  con  matrix, we  can  very  easily  show  that this  matrix  is  symmetry  matrix. Now,  for  the  symmetry  matrix, we  can  very  easily  to  get the  eigenvalue  of  the  eigen of  this  one  is  defined  by  here. If  this  matrix  is  a  symmetry  matrix, then  all  eigen  vector  corresponding to  non  Zal  eigenvalue  is  also  go. That  means  different  eigen  vector of  the  same  matric. For  different  eigenvalue, they  are  also  going  on. This  also  go  is  very  important. Why?  Because  to  span  dimensional  space, we  need  is  coordinated  axis. All  these  axis  use also  go  on.  They  are  also  going  on. All  eichenvectors  corresponding  to different  eigenvalue,  they  are  also  gone. Then  the  eichenvector,  will always  choose  the  unit  n, so  all  echenector  is  called  also  normal. Also  normal  means  they  are  also  gone and  the  ngs  is  unit  is  one. Aichor  could  be  also  normal  eichenvector. Because  what  we  study  here, the  eigenvector  of  a  matrix, this  matrix  is  a  scat  matrix, is  a  data  skate  matrix, is  a  data  corns  matrix. They  are  always  the  symmetry  matric. Then  in  our  in  the  scope  of  our  study, eigenvector  is  always  also  normal. Vectors.  Then  we  can  take  this  chen  vector as  the  axis  of the  coordinate  system.  They  are  also  normal. Now,  next  one  if  we  want  to  further  go  away, we  first  try  to further  simplify  our  expression. Because  based  on  the  near  archipra, the  original  difation  of  a  single  eigenvector and  single  eichen  value  is  this  equation. En  vector  and  a  scan  value, I  spy  this  equation is  called  eigenvector  and  eichen  value. But  of  course,  given  matrix, we  have  multiple  vector, multiple  vue  num  this  equation, we  have  multiple  eigen vector  and  eichen  value. Anyway,  given  by  matrix, we  can  always  define  nicvector  and  icvnus. If  the  matrix  is  by  matrix. Now,  here  we  want  to  use  one  expression one  equation  to  include all  eichen  vector  and  all  ichenvalue. So  we  put  all  different  ichen  vector into  a  matrix  n  by  n  matrix, and  we  put  eigenvalue  into  a  diagonomtrix, to  define  it  from small  number  to  a  big  numbda. This  big  number  is  also  by  matrix, but  it  is  a  digomtrix, contains  all  eichen  values. We  f,  this  big  five  is  a  matrix, by  matrix  contains all  different  ichen  vectors. Now,  if  we  have  such  a  definition, then  we  can  simplify this  equation  i  from one  to  n  into  one  matrix  equation. We  simplify  this  expresion. We  convert  different  equation into  just  one  matrix  equation. This  f  is  an  eigenvector  matrix, contain  all  eigenvectors. Namda  is  a  diagram  matrix, it  contains  all  eigenvus. Now, after  this  simplification  of  this  expression, we  can  further  derive  something. Now,  if  we  given  such  a  diferation. Anyway,  this  is  just  a  difation in  the  nema  arte, what  is  the  eichen  vector? What  is  the  eigen  value? Based  on  this  difion, if  we  multiply  the p  transpose  at  the  both  sides, we  can  very  easily  get  a  other  two  equations. Sigma  is  Corns  matrix equals  to  the  ichenvector  matrix multiplied  by  the  diagonal  ienvnu  matrix. Also,  if  given  any  Corns  matrix, if  multiplied  by  its ichentor  matrix  in  this  way, then  we  get  a  diagonal  matrix. Well,  the  dig  element  is  the  eigenvalue. You  can  very  sate  this  tool. By  simple  operation,  we multiply  this  five  transpose at  the  both  side  and  so  on, and  five  is  also  go  matrix  so  that  we know  five  transpose  times five  is  identity  matrix. Because  all  eigen  vector  are  also  normal. Then  of  course,  this  multiplication is  just  identical  matrix. If  the  two  matrix  multiplication is  identical  matrix, then  one  matrix  is  inverse  matrix  by  fation, the  inverse  matrix  of  a  lather  one. Now,  if  it  is  a  inverse, then  two  matrix,  if  they  are  inverse, then  the  five  times  five  transpose is  also  a  identity  matrix. Not  just  this  is  identity. This  one  is  also  a  identity  because  they  are inverse  mutually  inverse  matrix,  right? This  is  the  basics  from  the  nar  algebra  so that  we  can  get  this  two  blue  nel  one. Now,  this  two  blue  cel  one  will  tell  us more  information.  For  amble. This  may  help  us  to  further  understand the  co  matrics  and the  ien  vector  and  ien  values. Now  here,  we  visualize  this  one. Example,  use  a  two  dimensional  data. Suppose  that  the  original  X is  just  two  dimensional  data. Then  for  whatever  umber  of the  t  sample  for  two  dimensional  data, we  can  compute  its  comerimtri. It  is  just  a  two  by  two  matrics,  right? Now,  in  this  two  by  two  matrix, this  cons  matrix,  we  need  to understand  what  is  the  meaning of  this  four  element. Of  course,  there  are  same  matrix that  means  12x  to  21. But  we  need  to understand  the  meaning  of  this  matrix. Now,  here  we  are  starting  this  one. Don't  think  about,  we  always start  this  traditional  one. Now  we  have  the  AI  model, we  have  deep  learning. We  don't  need  to  start  all  this  sins. But  don't  forget  that even  the  most advanced  technique  transformer  is based  on  the  attention is  based  on  all  matrix  tipication, and  in  this  mattication, the  attention  is  the  same  as  the  C  matrix. Later,  I  will  show  you. Don't  think  about  this  one  is  not  important. If  you  understand  that, it  will  help  you  really  understand the  most  advanced  AI  model built  up  by  the  transformer. Or  the  current  large  model GPD  and  GM  and some  other  large  language  model, build  up  by  transformer. The  transformer  is  just  perform  attention. Attention  is  just  con  mats. Now,  anyway,  we  need  to understand  the  meaning  of  this  co  matrix. To  visualize  it,  we plot  this  two  dimensional  data  here. Again,  one  sample  is a  point  in  two  dimensional  space. If  we  have  a  huge  number of  the  training  data. Then  if  we  plot  it, then  you  will  form  ample  in  such  a  way. Form  a  cloud.  Now,  this  all  this  dot, will  form  our  whole  training  data  set. I  believe  I  plot  this  is  a  10,000  point. Let  me  we  have  10,000  training  samples. Show  clear  this  dot  cloud show  the  distribution  of  our  training  datas. Now,  watch  the  11. V11  is  project  this  two dimensional  data  into one  dimension  into  this  axis. Then  all  this  two  dimensional  data  becomes to  a  single  one  value  here. Then  we  can  compute  what  is  the  varian. Then  this  variance  is  one. Then  22  is  we  project this  two  dimensional  dots  into  one  axis. Then  along  this  axis, we  can  compute  what  is  the  variance. Then  this  variance  and  x  two  is  two. Now,  what  is  the  12  and  one. Of  course,  they  are  same. This  12  and  one  is  a  variance  of  correlation, you  will  show  how  this  X one  and  X  two  are  correlated  each  other. This  12  and  22 will  show  the  shape  of  this  distribution. From  this  distribution,  it  is  not  difficult. We  can  imagine  that  given  a  two  value. W11  and  two, we  can  prote  many  different  heap, different  shape,  but  with  same  11  and  12. For  example,  this  flat, this  shape  can  be  very  narrow. This  shape  can  be  very  flat,  right? But  we  have  same  W  one  and  w12. This  shape  we  determined  by this  variance  11  and  21. C  variance,  the  coordination between  X  one  and  X  two. We  can  also  understand  why this  one  is  a  coordination. Now,  if  one  and  X  one  and  X two  are  minia  coordinated, then  what  happened? Then  this  con  has  a  maximum  value, then  this  shape  will  be  a  straight  line. That  if  we  say  this  is  a  ellipse, then  the  short  axis  could  be  zero. O  point  is  along  a  street  line. Then  they  are  linear  correnated, x  y  and  x  two  are  linear  cornated. You  will  make  this  shape, this  ellipse  into  a  short  axis  is  zero. Now,  if  this  w  w  are  very,  very  small, that  means  x  y  and  x  two  are  almost  corated. Then  this  ellipse  must  be  very  flat. Almost  a  circle. If  it  is  n  x  n  this. Because  from  this  shape, we  can  see  that  the  x  y  and x  two  are  somehow  conated  to  x  y. Because  if  given  a  training  example, if  we  know  the  x  y  is  a  small  value, then  the  X  two  are  mostly  small. If  we  know  a  point  the  x  y  is  g  value, then  X  two  not  exactly, we  know  the  value,  but  it  is  moly. X  y  and  x  two  are  somehow  coinated. So  again,  this  one  I  show  we  can understand  a  certain from  many  different  aspects. Now,  this  is  to  understand  the  corn  matrix, corresponding  to  the  distribution shape  of  the  data. Now,  next  one,  given  this  corns  matrix, we  can  find  two  ichen  vectors. Then  the  two  i  f  f two  from  previous  nights we  can  represent  by  this  one. Now,  if  we  use  a  lather  one, that  means  given  this  con  matrix, if  we  multiply  this  ich vector  matrix  in  such  a  way  then  we  get a  diagon  matrix  that  have  two  ich  vues. Now,  what  is  this  one means  num  da  equals to  five  transpose  Sigma  five. Now,  we  replace  this  cons  matrix by  its  decolation. Here,  I  use  a  simple  expression. A  training  data  after  minus its  mean  is  just  a  matrix. The  cores  matrix  is just  a  multiplication  of  the  two  data  matrix. Of  course,  centronze  the  data. Then  we  get  this  expression. From  this  expression,  we  can very  easily  see  what  we  have. If  we  define  X multiplied  by  this  two  eigen  vector  is  Y. Then  this  number  is just  the  covariance  matrix  of  the  y. Well,  y  is  project  the  X into  the  two  eigenvectors. That  means  if  we  project the  data  into  all  its  eigen  vectors, we  get  a  new  new  ndiensional  data because  we  can  have  n  eigenvectors. Now,  this  new  measurement  of the  y  con  matrix  will  be  a  diagonomtrix. Because  the  con  matrix  of the  Y  is  a  diagonal  matrix. That  means  the  y,  the  two  component of  the  y  is  ornated. If  it's  con  matrix  is  a  diagno  matrix, it  can  help  us  to  simplify  many  sons. Because  we  know  in that  prediction  all  classification, we  met  the  inverse  of  the  corns  matrix. But  if  the  corn  matrix  digo  matrix, the  inverse  is  just  inverse, each  element  of  the  diagonal. We  can  very  easily  get  what  is  its  inverse. Otherwise,  given  at  matrix, its  inverse  is  very  difficult  to  compute. But  the  problem  is  not  just  compute, it  is  difficult  to understand  after  the  inverse  what  we  get, it  is  difficult  to  image  what  we  get. After  we  have  an  inverse  matrix of  the  one  matrix. What  is  the  meaning  given  a  matrix, we  get  the  inverse. But  now  if  we  have  a  diagonal  matrix, the  inverse  the  meaning  is  very  clear. It's  just  the  inverse  of  the  en  value. It's  the  inverse  of  the  of the  variance  of  the  data.  Okay. Now,  eigenvector, then  given  X.  What  is  the  X? In  the  training  data, X  are  all  this  data, all  this  t  dot. If  we  project  this  X  into  the  y, two  eichenvector,  what  we  get? We  project  the  t  dot  into  two  eigen  vector, then  what  is  the  ei  vector  in  this  space? The  two  eigen  vector  must be  shown  here,  this  green. The  two  green  nine  is  a  two  eigenvector.  Why? Because  from  this  distribution, it's  pretty  clear  along  this  direction, the  data  has  maximum  variation, the  varian  maximum. This  51  must  be the  eigenvector  corresponding  to  eigen  value. Because  the  variants  will  be  largest. If  you  take  a  larger  direction, the  variance  will  be  smaller  than this  direction.  This  must  be Eigenvector  corresponding to  not  just  eigen  value. Now,  a  larger  eigenvalue  must be  also  go  to  this  one. There  must  be  this  i  two,  also  go. If  we  project  the  x  into eigen  vector  to  have  the  Y,  what  is  the  Y? Y  is  exactly  the  same,  this  r  dot, but  we  ma  the  value  of  this  dot, e  the  value  along two  eigen  vector  five  and  52. That's  is  the  Y.  That  means the  y  is exactly  the  same  this set  of  the  training  data. We  just  rotate  the  coordinate  system  X  one, X  two,  two,  five,  and  52. Now,  if  we  just  rotate the  coordinated  system, all  the  dt  in the  two  dimension  space  has  no  change. We  project  X  into  the  y. We  never  change  anything  about  the  data. We  just  made  the  data  in  different  way. But  after  we  made the  data  in  a  different  way  into  a  y, not  the  X,  then the  cons  matrix  of this  data  is  a  diagonal  matrix. Then  the  two  component  of the  Y  is  correnated. Because  you  can  see  if 51  and  52  is  a  two  coordinate. Given  any  point  training  data. If  we  know  the  venue  of  the  project  to  51 does  give  us  any  information what  is  the  venue  of  the  52. They  are  uncorre.  For  uncorre, then  it  the  n  axis must  be  on  one  of  the  axis. If  the  nn  axis  of  the  ellipse  of this  shape  is  not  a  n  one  axis, it  must  be  coordinated. The  two  component  must  be  coordinated. Now,  anyway,  what  is  the  PCA?  We  know  that. The  PCA  is  just  projects the  high  dimensional  data  into  n  dimension, where  the  low  dimension  is  suspended  by a  eigen  vectors  corresponding to  a  not  just  eigen  value. Anyway,  this  is  the  PCA. That  PCA  will  maximize  the  variance  of the  high  dimensional  data in  this  n  dimensional  space. In  node  dimensional  space. If  this  node  dims  we choose  different  node  dimension  base, the  trees  of  this  corns matrix  will  be  different. But  if  we  chose  the  PCA, choose  the  Eichen  vector  corresponding to  largest  value,  then  the  trees, all  the  total  variance  in the  node  dimensional  space, is  the  sum  of  all  ei  values. So  it's  the  trees  of the  corns  matrix  of  the  y. So  the  cons  matrix of  the  y  of  co  is  this  one,  right? The  consmtrix  of  y  is  here  is  this  one. This  is  the  concomtrix  of  the  X. So  pretty  clean  show  that. So  we  have  complete  the  study, what  is  the  PCA  and the  physical  meaning  of  the  PCA. It  is  pretty  car  PCA, we  maximize  the  information in  no  dimensional  space. So  that  you  minimize  the  recontraction  a. That  means  it  minimize  the  most of  the  information  in  no  dimensional  space. Because  from  high  dimensional  space, we  come  to  a  null  dimensional  space. Usually,  we  may  lose  some  information. But  if  we  use  the  PCA to  reduce  the  high  dimensional  dimension, in  this  dimensional  this  no dimensional  minimize  the  information  lot. Because  it  minimize  the  recontraction  era. I  maximize  the  information  in amount  of  the  information in  this  no  dimensional  space. Anyway,  PC  A  will minimize  the  recontraction  era, so  it  maximize  the  viration of  the  data  in  no  dimensional  space. But  anyway,  although  PCA  is  optimum. We  call  it  optimum. Optimum  means  it minimize  the  information  lost, but  does  not  mean  it don't  lose  any  information. It  just  minimize  the  lost. But  minimize  the  lot also  lose  some  information. But  how  can  We  know  some  information. Use  this  now  dimensional  data if  we  take  it  as  the  feature, how  you  will  outperform  we  use  original  data. How  how  can  we  get  a  higher  accuracy? This  is  another  issue. This  PCA  optimized  PCA  cannot  answer. We  have  also  another  issue. Although  PCA  minimize  the  information, but  the  information  is a  general  information  in the  whole  training  data. The  purpose  for  the  prediction or  the  classification  is  to discriminate  the  data  into  different  sis. This  discriminative  information  may be  different  from  the  overall  information. Here  I  show  examples. Now,  suppose  we  have  the  set  of the  data  consists  of  all  this  black, black,  dot  and  cross. All  this  cross  and  dot contains  all  training  datas. Well,  dot  is  the  training  data  of  one  class, cross  is  the  training  data of  the  other  class. Now,  if  we  take  all  this  training  data, it  commun  along  this  grid  direction. The  data  has  mag  variance. Then  the  data  along  the  green  direction. Right?  If  we  reduce this  two  dimensional  black  color  data into  one  dimension. If  we  use  the  PCA, the  PCA  will  find eigen  vector  corresponding  to not  just  eigen  value  must  be  this  red  nine. Because  along  this  red  ne, the  variation  of  the  data  is larger  than  another  ne. But  along  this  rate  line, the  training  data  of this  two  class  are  fully  overlapped. If  we  do  the  classification, just  use  this  one  dimension. Then  the  classing  arrow  is almost  the  maximum  error  rate,  50%. Whatever  twice  you  use, try  to  classify  the  data  into  dot  and  cross. The  classification  arrow  is  50%. But  if  we  project  the  data  into one  dimension  to  project the  data  along  this  green  nine. We  can  see  that  these  two  class are  well  separated. If  we  classify  the  data, can  utilize  the  one  dimension, we  can  very  easily  find  a  tris to  separate  this  data  very  well. Then  the  classifation  a could  be  just  10%  or  5%. Now,  this  illustration,  very  clearly tell  us  the  PCA  is not  good  for  classification. If  we  want  classify the  high  dimensional  data, use  the  null  dimensional feature  to  classify  it. If  we  use  the  PCA to  reduce  the  high  dimensional into  a  dimension  then  to  do the  classf  then  PCA  is  not  good. Because  the  PCA  is  unsupervised. We  never  use  the  class membership  of  the  twining  data, we  can  get  the  eigenvector and  eigenvalue  of  the  twining  data, a  whole  twining  data. Many  people  then  think  about the  good  property  or  desired property  to  determine  a  low  dimension, shod  find  a  project  vector  along  this  vector, the  two  different  class  are  separated. All  the  variation  of the  data  of  the  different  class  are  ger, not  within  the  class  are  larger. Here  show  an  example. If  we  have  data  distribution of  one  class  and  the  large  class. If  it's  goals,  of  course, we  can  use  a  ellipse  to indicate  how  is  this  distribution. Now,  in  such  a  case, on  this  one  has highest  variation  of  the  total  data. Then  the  PCA  will  find  this  direction. But  on  this  one  dimension, this  part  of  the  two  class  are  overlapped. But  a  arger  direction, this  22  class  are  we  separated. So  people  very  easily  to  find, we  should  try  to  find the  projection  each  way, minimize  the  variation  of the  data  within  the  class  and maximize  the  difference  of the  center  of  between  different  class. We  have  a  so  called  A  discrepant  analyses. After  break,  we  will  study a  other  way  to  reduce  the  diming. Is  called  ADA  discrepant  anyth. 10  minutes  of  break. We  resume  our  class. Now,  for  the  LDA, same  as  the  PCA, we  need  to  have  a  set  of the  a  set  of  the  training  data. Now  because  LDA  is tried  to  discriminate  different, the  training  data  of  the  different  class. For  all  training  data, we  need  to  utilize the  class  membership  of  the  training  data. So  then  similar  to  the  PCA, we  also  need  to  compute  the  cores  matrics. But  here,  in  the  ADA, we  compute  the  cosmetrics  for  each  class. Of  course,  the  comet  mathematic  definition are  exactly  the  same. Here,  we  just  use  the  data of  the  same  class  in  this  submission. Thesfo  no  other  difference. For  each  class,  we  have one  class  conditional  cos  tx. Then  of  course,  the  mean  vector  Man is  also  class  conditional. We  compute  the  mean  just for  user  t  data  of  the  same  class. We  have  the  MuG  and  sycamG. Now,  after  we  have this  class  conditional  core  metrics, we  can  have  ped  orth  matrics, use  one  cores  metric  to  represent  all  class. We  I  reach  the  class  conditional  co  matrix to  form  one  single  matrix. This  matrix  is  called  ped  cosmetri, ped  class  comp  arsmatri, or  within  class  tmatri. Although  we  have  only  a  single  matrix, but  the  vari  the  variation  of  this metric  show  the  variation of  the  data  within  the  class. Different  class  for  different  class, the  variation  of  the  data  of the  different  class  are  never  captured  here. F  data  from  the  different  class  is just  this  average  of class  conditional  co  matrix. Anyway,  this  single  matrix, it  shows  the  variation  of the  training  data  within  the  same  class. Then  this  vis  of the  data  within  the  same  class. These  variants  are  out reached  over  different  class. So  we  have  only  one  matrix. Basically,  this  matrix  shows the  variation  of  the  data  within  the  class. Although  we  have  many  class, but  we  have  only  one  single  matrix. Anyway,  this  is  called within  class  scat  matrix. Now,  similarly  to  the  training  data. For  each  class,  we  can  have  the  class  mean. The  mean  vector  of  the different  class,  they  are  different. This  G  and  Xi, they  are  same  vector  n  dimensional  vector. If  x  is  a  point  in  ndimensional  space, then  MG  is  also a  point  in  ndimensional  space. If  we  have  different  MG, use  this  different  points, we  can  also  compute  a  co  matrix. Again,  the  definition  are  same,  no  different. A  slight  difference  is  here. The  compute  is  a  weighted  average. Weighted  by  the  number  of  the  class for  a  number  of the  training  data  of  the  different  class. Same  as  this  average  here. This  is  also  weighted  average. Besides  that,  the  definition  of the  cos  matric  are  exactly  same. Now,  we  call  this metric  between  class  matrics because  it  shows  the  variance between  the  center  of  the  different  class. We  understand  this  Sp between  class  ctimtrics. Now,  after  we  have  the  S  and  S  B, we  can  find  the  dimension  reduction  critum  to find  a  vector  dimension that  if  the  data  project  to  this  dimension, it  will  maximize  the  variation  of  the  Sp. Because  variation  of  the  SP shows  the  difference  between  different  class, and  at  the  same  time, we  try  to  minimize  the  variation  of  SW, because  SW  show  the  data  variation  of the  same  class  so that  we  can  achieve  our  objective. The  bet  class  has large  variation  within the  class  has  small  variation. Now,  how  to  achieve  this  objective  or  gum. The  principle  are  same  as  the  PCA. No  difference  to  achieve  this  maximum. We  now  different  from PCA  maximize  the  variation  of  ST.  Now, we  want  to  maximize  the  variation  of  SB, but  minimize  the  variation  of  S, then  we  use  the  inverse  of. Much  proper  SB. Then  maximize  the  variation  of  this  matrix. Then  of  course,  it  will maximize  between  the  class, but  within  the  class  is  inverse. If  it  maximize  it, the  inverse  will  be  minimized. If  we  maximize  the  inverse, then  before  the  inverse,  it  will  minimized. The  LDA  is  just  maximize the  variation  of the  data  project  to  the  vector. I  maximize  this  expression. Now,  same  as  the  PCA  to  find  the  maximize this  expression  is  to  find the  echen  vector  and  ien  value of  this  metrics. So  basically,  ALDA  very  similar  to  PCA to  find  the  eigenvector  and eigenvalue  just  of  different  matrix. For  the  ALTA,  this  matrix  is SW  inverse  multi  SB. PCA  is  echen  vector  and ichenvalue  of  SP.  That's  all. If  we  understand  the  principle  of  the  PCA, of  course,  ADA,  we  can  also  understand. The  whole  process  we  understand. We  just  compute  the  matrix  differently. For  PCA,  we  compute  SP. For  ALDA,  we  compute  SW  SP. Then  the  remaining  process  exact  same. Find  the  ei  vector  and  ivalue. So  this  is  ADA. Now,  from  the  differing  of  ST, S,  and  SB,  mathematic  it  is  not  difficult. We  can  very  easily  to  prove  that ST  is  equals  to  SW  plus  SP. This  is  why  the  diflation  of SW  and  SB  will  meet  the  weight  average. This  is  reasonable  in terms  of  the  physical  meaning  because different  class  has  different  number of  the  20  samples, so  we  need  to  use  it  to  weight  the  average. Now  by  this  diflation, it  also  produce  a very  reasonable  expression  relation between  ST,  SW,  and  SB. It  clear  show  the  data, total  variation  is  the  sum of  the  variation  of  the  data within  the  class  and the  variation  of  the  data between  the  center  of  the  different  class. It's  very  nicely  show  this  variations. SW  total  scale  metrics, total  variation  is  within  variation plus  between  class  variation. That's  all,  right? Now,  because  many  researchers know  that  pattern  recognition is  to  discriminate. If  we  want  to  give  out  different  prediction is  to  differentiate  the  input  to  different. For  classification  is  to  different  class. So  basically,  recognition  system  is a  discriminative  process  to discriminate  the  input  into  different  cs. We  know  that  for discriminative  information  to  capture  it, we  need  to  use  the  LDA,  not  the  PCA. Obviously,  the  LDA  will  extract more  discriminative  features  than  PCA. This  is  of  course  definite  to. But  then  because  of  that, the  vast  majority  of the  researchers  working  on this  feature  extraction  or dimensional  reduction  for  the  classifying always  use  the  LDA, not  use  the  PCA. Almost  99%  of  the  researchers. Because  before  the  deep  learning becomes  in  the  practice, this  PCA  LDA  is  a  very  hot  research  topic. Many  research  work  on  that. I  believe  thousands  of  the  papers published  just  talking  about  how to  reduce  the  dimension  of  the  data  then  to do  the  classification  in the  no  dimension  space. Now,  among  all  these  researchers, the  vast  majority,  always  think LDA  should  perform  much  better  than  PCA. Because  LDA  gates  the  feature, will  separate  the  class, we  minimize  the  valuation of  the  data  within  the  class. Of  course,  it  appears  to  be very  nice  property  of  the  PCA. Man,  almost  all  researchers always  work  on  the  LDA. But  now,  the  ADA  is  already  shown  here. So  why  we  need  further  work  on  the  ADA? Because  LDA,  we  find  the  icon  vector  and ic  value  of  S  inverse  times  S  B. So  before  we  can  get  the  LDA  feature, we  need  first  to compute  what  is  the  inwards  of the  SW.  Then  20  years  ago, it  is  not  so  easy  to connect  a  huge  number  of  the  training  data. You  may  not  be  able  to  image  in  20  years  ago. Usually,  is  a  problem  is only  a  few  ts  or a  few  hgent  of  the  training  image. But  the  image  size  could be  thousand  by  1,000  is  1  million. The  number  of  the  20  data  is  much  smaller than  the  whole  dimension  of  the  sample. This  means  the  Q  minus  c is  much  smaller  than  Well, the  rank  of  thematic  W  is  Q  minus  c. Q  is  the  total  number  of  the  20  sample. C  is  the  number  of  the  class  in  the  t  sample. Now,  why  the  rank  of  S  is  q  minus  c, not  the  Q,  not  the  Q  minus  one. Because  the  W  is ag  of  the  class  conditional  th  matrix. For  each  class  conditional  asm  matri, the  rank  is  Q  Q  Q  minus  one. Is  number  of  the  20  sample  minus  one  because we  compute  the  matrix  minus  its  mean, mean  is  the  reach  of  the  training  data. You  can  imagine  that  if one  class  has  Qing  data, not  all  Q  twining  data  are  independent. Because  the  submission  of all  twining  data  must  be  equals  to the  class  me  where  Man  is used  subtracted  from  all  twining  data. Because  of  that,  the  number  of the  cons  matrix  is  at  most  Q  minus  one. I  because  we  com  matrix minus  mean  mean  is computed  by  the  twining  data  itself. So  not  all  ting  data  are independent  after  minus  its  mean. We  need  to  verify that  what  is the  deflation  of  the  independent? If  we  have  Qing  data, but  if  all  these  Q  ting  data, sum  them  together  is  equal  to  the mean  n  times  me. Q  is  a  number  of  Q  times  Q 120  tub  is  a times  be  minus  the  remaining  one. Anyway,  you  just  roughly time  don't  think  about  so  many  news. The  rank  of  is  q minus  c.  C  is  the  number  of  the  class. Because  each  class  conditional  cons  matrix, the  rank  is  a  Q  k  minus  one. So  some  of  them  together  is  Q  minus  c.  Now, in  the  20  years  ago, this  Q  minus  the  number  of the  20  data  minus  smaller  than. For  example, in  the  phase  identification  system, the  phase  large  number. In  some  application,  for  each  person, we  may  have  only  connect two  or  three  different  phase, but  a  huge  number  of the  persons  need  to  identify. Anyway,  20  years  ago, if  we  want  to  apply  the  LDA, then  we  need  to  solve the  problem  for  application, the  number  of  the  tiny  data  is  much smaller  than  the  data  dimension, so  that  the  SW  is  not  full  rank, then  how  to  gate  the  LDA  result. Then  thousands  of  the  research  papers propose  how  to  solve  the  problem. So  that  LDA  applied to  such  kind  of  the  situation. The  number  of  the  t  data  is smaller  than  the  data  dimension. I  just  gave  you  one  example,  for  example. Then  some  research  think  about, we  can  use  PCA  plus  ALDA. Because  we  cannot  directly apply  the  ALDA  because the  ins  within  class  times in  original  high  dimension  is  not  full  rank. Then  we  can  use  the  PCA  to reduce  the  high  dimensional  data,  somehow. Then  in  this  now  dimension, it  is  a  full  rank. Then  we  can  apply  ALDA. This  idea  is  also very  simple  very  straightforward. But  even  some  simple  ideas, it  can  make  some  method applied  in  the  practice. In  the  phase  titan, PC  A  plus  ALDA  is  called  facial  phase. Anyway,  this  is  just  a  name. But  today,  what  I  mentioned  that is  what  I  want  to  the  information  convert to  you  is  somehow  we  need to  we  should  not forget  some  very  fundamental  basic  science. Now  here,  I  is  one  issues. B  from  the  original  high  dimensional  data, we  want  to  reduce  the  data  dimension  to extract  the  feature  dimension. Then  to  do  the  classification. Now,  why  we  need  to  do  such  a  kind  of  sens? Because  we  want  to  make the  raw  data  high  dimension of  raw  data  becomes  now  dimension. Then  to  do  the  prediction, we  can  achieve  much  better  result. We  can  make  the  method  higher  performance. Then  we  need  to  the  process,  right? Because  for  the  classification  to  measure the  performance  of  course is  the  classification  accuracy. That  means  we  try  to  reduce the  high  dimensional  data  into  n  dimension. Then  based  on  this  now  dimension to  do  the  prediction, the  purpose  is  to enhance  the  performance  of  the  whole  system. But  if  we  reduce the  high  dimensional  data  into  dimension, it  will  lose  information. Because  the  no  dimensional  data  any way  compared  to  the  high  dimension, it  must  lose  information. Now,  PCA  just  minimize the  nos  information of  the  general  information, but  ALDA  minimize  the  nose of  the  discrepant  information. Now,  but  if  we  take such  an  effort  to  reduce the  high  dimension  data  into  no  dimension, to  try  to  improve  the  performance, that  means  the  higher  performance  accuracy can  be  achieved use  amount  of  the  information compared  to  the  original  data. Now,  if  under  such  assumption, that  means  higher  accuracy  can  be achieved  with  nas  discant  information. So  we  reduce  the  data. But  why  to  achieve  this  node  dimion, we  need  to  try  to maximize  the  discretant  information. Why  we  need  to  maximize this  discretion  information, the  original  data  should have  the  most  amount  of  the  information, whatever  information  in the  original  high  dimension  data should  be  most  amount  of the  information  in  the  original  data. After  you  reduce  the  node  dion, it  will  lose  some  information. But  to  convert the  high  dimension  data  into  node  emission, the  purpose  is  to  improve  the  accuracy. Now,  that  means  the higher  quacy  can  be  achieved by  smaller  amount of  the  discrepant  information. Then  this  process,  why the  critum  is  to set  extract the  most  discriminant  information. Now,  ALDA  try  to keep  most  discriminant  information. Now,  if  more  discriminating  region means  better  classification  result, then  why  we  met  the  dimension  reduction? Why  we  don't  classify  the  original  role  data. Now,  this  tool  are  contradictory. But  such  fundamental  sis. This  sovereign  of  researchers work  on  this  area, never  ask  this  question, never  think  about  this  quiz. Try  to  find  how  to  solve  the  inverse  problem, how  to  make  them  workable. Never  think  about  these  issues. This  is  why  the  superficial  study, or  if  you  forgot some  very  basic  fundamental  sins, this  may  media  somehow  fake  research  result. This  is  why  you  are  encouraged  to compile  the  PCA  and  ADA  in your  assignment  project  assignment and  use  your  experiment  result. You  do  the  classification  to  compute the  classification  accuracy  against different  dimensionality  reduction  method, against  the  different  dimension, you  reduce  the  high  dimension into  different  amount  of the  dimension  and  see  what is  the  classification  result? Then  to  verify  what  you  understand. This  is  why  my  assignment  is  in  this  topic, the  dimensional  reduction for  the  classification. This  is  because  from  intuitive  idea, we  can  plot  somehow  the, the  final  QC  against  the  data  dimension. Now,  original  data  has  dimensional. In  general  way,  it  should  highest  Qc. If  we  try  to  reduce the  dimension  that  means  to remove  some  information  from  the  data, remove  some  component  from  the  data, use  only  part  of  them  for  the  classification, then  the  Qc  will  be  reduced. In  general,  this  curve should  be  such  a  curve. Now  that  means  we  can  plot the  cs  quay  against  different  dimension  of the  data  from  n  dimension  to reduce  the  n  dimension  into  no  dimension, different  number  of  the  dimensions. Then  for  different  dimension, what  is  the  quay?  We  can  compute  it? Then  we  can  plot  this  curve. In  general,  it  should  be  such  of  the  curve. At  least  this  curve, you  will  gate  this  curve, you  just  randomly  remove some  component  in  the  data  vector, use  the  part  of  them to  do  the  classification. It  is  not  difficult  to imagine  that  the  accuracy  will decrease  with  decrease  of you  use  the  decreased  the  number of  the  element  in your  vector  data  for  use it  to  do  the  classification. It  is  not  difficult  to image  it  should  be  such  kind  of  the  curve. But  somehow, if  we  reduce  the  dimension  of  the  data, it  will  lose  information. But  the  original  data could  contain  a  rich  information. Many  information  is  nothing  to do  with  your  classification  task. For  example,  human  face  recognition. The  face  image  contains  rich  information. It  shows  your  expression  you  are g  or  angry  or  cry, or  mutual  or  some  different  expression. Then  all  this  information are  shown  in  your  face  image. But  if  we  use  this  face  image  to do  to  identify  the  person, different  person,  all  this  information  is nothing  cannot use  to  identify  different  person. Cannot  say  you  laugh and  your  angry  at  two  different  person. This  information  carry  in the  rule  data  is  ear relevant  to  this  particular  classification. In  the  data  set, it  contains  meaning  a  lot  of  the  information. It  is  redundant  or  ear relevant  to  particular classification  problem. We  understand  if this  bad  feature  equation or  dimension  reduction can  be  recognized  by  some  zoos. If  we  reduce  this  dimension  by  try to  keep  the  disc  discriminative  information, and  remove  redundant  information. Then  we  can  imagine  that, we  can  reduce  the  high  dimension into  no  dimension. What  we  remove  is  usens  information. Then  this  is  very  good. But  by  doing  so, what  you  can  achieve. We  can  achieve  is  for  original, very  high  dimension,  we  can reduce  to  a  dimension, remove  many  elements become  a  very  no  dimension, but  we  can  achieve  the same  classification  accuracy  because what  we  remove  is usenes  for  this  classification  task. Because  we  extract the  dimensional  information is  try  to  maximize the  discriminative  information, that  we  can  use  dimension, the  result  are  same  as  the  high  dimension. Because  what  we  remove  is redundant  information.  But  this  is  what? West  we  can  expect. Such  as  we  use  the  LDA,  minimize  the  lost. But  minimize  the  lost  does  not  you  can  gain. You  can  get  us  We  can only  expect  by  maximize the  discriminant  information in  the  null  dimension, we  can  expect  the  qua  will  not  do, we  not  decrease  from  the  null  dimension. Such  as  we  expect that  discrimination  information  by  ADA. But  how  we  remove the  information  to  get the  null  dimension  of the  data  to  do  the  classification, the  qua  can  be  much  higher. How  can  make  it  higher? Then  we  need  to  somehow  figure  out. The  information  can  be divided  information  as  reenliable  information and  some  mis  needed  information. Some  information  in  your  training  data. If  you  use  this  information to  determine  your  clasp, it  need  your  clasp  to  make your  class  to  do  as  one  prediction. Now,  if  we  before  the  classification, we  try  to  remove  this  mis  needed  information. Then  we  can  we  remove this  mis  neeeded  information to  get  the  low  dimensional  data, the  accuracy  can  be  much  higher  than use  the  original  row  data. The  key  here  should be  remove  the  mis  needed  information, not  to  extract the  most  discrettive  information. Not  the  ALDA  crit. Because  the  me  what is  the  mismeeded  information. Mismeeded  information  in  your  training  data. If  you  use  this  data  training  your  class, it  will  mis  neeed  your  class, then  this  information  must  be  discriminative. If  it  is  not  discriminative, it  cannot  mis  neeed  your  class. So  we  remove  some  discriminative  information if  we  can  identify  it  is  a  misme  information. As  I  mentioned  that,  the  mis needed  information  we  try  to  remove  it, it  can  increase  the  cat. We  can  understand  that,  but  it  is  very, very  difficult  to  identify the  information  den  in  your  training  data. It  is  a  real  discriminative  or  mis  need. If  you  remove  the  mis  needed  information, you  can  also  remove some  real  discriminative  information. If  you  reduce  the  dimension  by  such  kind  of the  equa  to  a  very  small  dimension, the  quay  could  be  drop  very  rapidly. To  get  this  Qc.  Now,  then some  researcher  may  come  some  approach, this  red  approach  and compile  with  discriminative  approaches, this  blue  al  wit  use  a  very  small  dimension. For  example,  to  reduce  the 10,000  dimension  here  into just  dimension  five  dimension. The  fact,  this  approach, this  method  is  very  bad. This  LDA  try  to  keep the  discriminative  image  is much  better  than  this  one. Then  many  researchers  always  use the  discriminative  approach  method, this  blue  color  one. But  now,  of  course,  some  research can  also  happen  to  be found  Msarch  can  work well  in  that  now  dimension. It  can  also  achieve  a  high  accuracy, relatively  high  much  higher than  this  two  approach because  this  researcher  first use  this  red  one, reduce  the  dimension  to remove  the  mis  information  so that  the  dimension achieve  very  high  accuracy. And  then  after  that, further  use  that  discriminate  information to  reduce  the  dimension  into  very  small, try  to  keep  the  discrimination  information. Then  keep  the  net  quac  not  dp  rapidly. Because  LDA  always  try  to minimize  the  most of  the  discrimination  formation. So  that  some  researchers develop  some  algorithm, achieve  very  high  quac compared  to  this  one  in  very  low  dimension. But  even  some  researcher  freak  out this  method  is  much  better, but  it  may  not  be  well  explained. These  researchers  think  this very  good  approach is  because  it  use the  discriminative  information. Use  ADA  not  use  this  read  n  one, because  it  compares  the  Q  here. Get  to  the  conclusion, ADA  discriminative  discriminative  method is  better  than  this  read  cer  method. But  from  here,  we  can  see the  rule  of  LDA  is  just keep  the  Qc  drop very  slowly  against  the  dimension. To  make  the  Qc  really  enhance  or improve  the  Qc  is  come  from  this  red. If  you  from  classification  in this  very  small  dimension  to  do such  a  comparison  to  get  this  conclusion, this  conclusion  is  wrong. I  will  mismat  the  audience. Right? But  how  to  find  this  mimet  information, why  and  how  we  can  enhance  the  Qc. This  one  is  skipped  in  this  course. In  my  large  course, I  will  further  study,  give  some  example, further  explain  how  we can  find  a  method  can  identify the  mime  information  to reduce  the  dis  really  improve  the  Qc. Of  course,  some  of  this  content is  show  in  the  papers. In  the  assignment,  I  gave this  three  paper  as  a  reference. In  your  project  assignment, what  I  expect  is you  may  not  exactly  get  this  curve, but  you  need  plot  creas against  the  different  dimension, reduced  from  one  high  dimension  data. You  need  to  plot  the  curve. Of  course,  you  can  plot  to  the  curve  in terms  of  increase  or  the  rate. Anyway,  in  your  project, I  want  you  to  try  to find  the  classification  of different  amount  of  the  dimension or  dimensionality  of  the  data. Try  to  find  this  result and  say  what  result  you  get.  Okay. This  is  what  in  my  assignment. I  mentioned  that,  you  need to  plot  the  classification. Ich  say  against  the  different  dimension. This  curve,  and  say  how  is  your  curve. This  will  help  you  understand the  dimensional  reduction for  the  classification. Now,  the  remaining  slides  just  to summarize  it  after  we  reduce  the  dimension. Anyway,  we  find  a  matrix. Whatever  matrix,  if the  original  high  dimension  multiplied, this  matrix  becomes  to no  dimension  as  our  feature. Then  next  one,  we will  use  this  feature to  do  that  classification. If  we  use  the  distance or  utilities  or  whatever  one, we  just  use  the  training  data compute  the  mean  and  cores matrics  of  the  A,  not  the  X. This  MF  and  sic  is  no  dimension. We  perform  our  classification  in no  dimensional  space  in  the  feature  space. Now,  after  we  have  this  file, then  for  all  input data  high  dimensional  data  X, we  can  always  project to  an  dimensional  vector. Then  use  this  no  dimension vector  of  the  training  data. We  can  also  compute this  MF  and  Cicma  A,  right? But  it  is  not  necessary. We  need  to  compute  the  MF  and  sigma  f, because  to  find  the  f, we  need  to  compute  what  is  the  five. Now,  if  we  have  this  five, this  MF  is  just  equals  to five  transpose  this  me  similar  to  here. Also  the  cons  matrix  in  no  dimensional  data, we  can  dy  to  compute  it  from the  cons  matric  of  the  high  dimensional  data. B  to  get  this  five  from  the  training  data, we  already  compute  this  sigma G.  Also  in  many  classification  problem. Especially  for  some  experiment, the  number  of  the  training  data for  each  class  may  be  very  small. We  need  to  use  the  port  cosmetrics in  the  computation  of  the  man  distance. So  this  cosmo  Cymetric, is  much  more  reliable than  individual  class  conditional  cosmetric. I  already  explained  that  before. For  example,  for  one  class, we  have  only  a  few  two  or  320  samples. For  each  class,  this  symetric  can represent  all  possible  variations. But  if  we  sum  them  over  all  different  class, then  this  one  will  be  much  more  reliable. We  can  use  the  same  symmetrics  for  all  class. As  a  result,  of  course, the  classification  will  be  a  linear  classi  f. M  to  compare, the  comtcs  are  same  for  all  class, on  different  mean  for  different  class. This  is  used  if  you  use a  minimum  distance  as  class  fe. Then  we  can  have  the  minimum  classification. Am  Mun  distance  class  fh, use  a  common  cons  matric  to  do  the  inverse. It  will  be  much  reliable,  much  robust, then  for  different  class, we  use  different  cons metrics  in  this  inverse. Okay,  we  complete  this  topic. I  want  to  go  to  some  introduction  of the  topic  seven  because next  week  we  don't  have the  sufficient  time  to  complete the  topic  seven  because next  week  we  only  have  half  time, second  half  we  will  make you  have  some  rest  and  then  do  your. We  go  to  some  part  of  the  topic. Okay. This  is  features  and  action. Topic  seven  is  features  action. Now,  just  now  we studied  the  feature  extraction. Now  feature  extraction  to produce  is  to  produce  a  single  feature, we  met  all  original  data  to combine  all  of  them together  into  one  single  feature. Then  different  feature  is just  a  different  combination. This  is  the  feature  extraction. But  this  one  computation  complex, is  a  time  consume because  a  single  feature  we  need  to  use all  original  component  to generate  one  single  feature. Then  we  need  to  generate  multiple  feature. In  some  application,  we need  very  quickly  gate  the  feature. Then  we  try  to  gate  the  feature, not  combine  all  the  feature. We  just  use  the original  high  dimensional  feature to  select  some  component. This  selection,  of  course, will  be  much  faster  than combine  all  them  together. This  is  a  feature  section.  Okay. Because  after  in  the  training  process, we  already  determine  what  feature we  need  selected  in  the  training  process. Then  in  the  prediction  process, we  only  need  compute  this  few  features, or  other  original  features, we  don't  need  them. We  don't  need  to  compute anything  about  other  features. It  it  will  be  computed  very  fast. Because  some  application we  need  fast  computation. Here,  give  an  example  of the  de  object  detection. Of  course,  the  example  is  to show  a  face  detection. How  to  perform  a  detection  problem. So  given  a  image, the  object  we  want  to  detect  it  is only  part  of  the  whole  input  image. With  unknown  position  and  unknown  size. Then  how  to  do  the  detection. So  basically  to  do  such  an  detection, we  can  only  find a  window  and  then scan  this  window  in  all  different  position. And  then  in  each  of  the  position, scanned  small  window,  we  can classify  it  into  the  phase  or  non  phase. O  for  other  object  detection  problem, it's  always  binary  classification. The  object  we  want  to  detect  it  or not  the  object  we  want  to  detect  it. Two  class  classification  problem. But  this  classification  mets  running  through man  all  possible  positions  and  even use  different  size  of the  window  because  we  don't  know where  is  the  object  in the  input  and  what is  the  size  of  this  object. Basically,  the  process  is  shown  here. We  first  form  a  window  of  some  size  aim  by  n. Then  after  we  have  this  initial  window, we  classify  the  image  within  this  window, H  is  the  phase  or  non  phase. We  need  to  extract  the  feature and  then  do  the  classification. But  after  that,  we  need  to move  this scan  this  window  to  another  position. Mathematically,  we  just  increase this  I  and  g  in  this  scaling  window. And  then  for  each  this  position, we  need  do  a  classification. This  is  a  very  time  consuming. Here,  I  show  that  for  all  this  position, we  need  to  do  the  classification. Move  this  window  into here,  we  detect  the  face. Then  we  move  to  find another  place,  the  face  or  not. Then,  but  for  each  position, we  need  to  do  a  feature to  find  the  feature and  to  do  the  classification. This  is  very  time  consumed. We  have  an  iteration  to  scan  the  window into  all  posable  position.  This  is  not  all. After  we  scanning  through  all  positions, we  need  to  change the  window  size  to detect  a  larger  scale  object. Because  for  the  more  previously, this  one,  arge  phase  is  not  detected. This  is  in  the  sib, then  we  can  detect  this  phase. Now,  this  because  for  a  detection  problem, we  need  to  perform  to gauge  the  feature  and  then  to do  classification  numerous  times. For  such  kind  of  application, we  need  a  faster  computation  of the  feature  and  fast  classification. Because  we  need  perform numerous  times  maybe  millions or  tens  thousands  of that  generate  the  feature to  get  the  feature  and  then  to base  on  feature  to  do  the  classification. Here,  then  we  have  three  challenges for  the  feature  equation. How  can  we  compute  the  feature  very  quickly? Because  for  each  classification, we  need  to  compute  the  feature. Now,  if  we  want  to compute  the  feature  very  quickly, then  we  need  to  find  a  way  to  compute the  fur  to  avoid  the  repeat  computation. For  example,  FFT  is  much  faster  than  DFT. It  can  be  thousand  times  faster  than  DFT. Because  FFT  find some  repeat  computation  in  the  DFT, then  try  to  remove this  reputation  of  the  computation. We  need  to  how  can we  avoid repeat  computation  in  different  features? Now,  then  if  we  try  to  find  a  small  set  of the  feature  to  do the  classification  so  that it  can  be  very  fast. But  then  if  we just  use  a  small  set  of  the  feature, how  we  can  get  a  good  feature, I  can  represent  the  whole  road  data. This  is  some  challenge  we  need  to  solve. Here,  again,  we  study the  traditional  machine  learning. We  will  introduce  approach or  a  solution  to  solve  these  challenges. This  approach  is  called  AdaBoost. Use  higher  like  features. This  approach  applied  to the  phase  detection  is  very,  very  famous. It's  called  Vela  Jones  approach because  this  approach is  proposed  by  Vela  and  Vela  and  Jones, two  researcher  from  SMU. These  two  guys  to  propose  this  approach. And  then  this  approach becomes  very  good  very  fast, and  then  apply  to  mining  area. Of  the  object  detection, especially  for  the  phase  detection. Before  the  deep  learning,  of  course, because  this  is  a  traditional  way. Before  the  deplening,  this  is the  most  popular  approach to  solve  the  problem of  the  detection  problem. This  topic,  we  will  introduce this  so  called  a  Junes  approach. This  Va  Jones  approach  in  the  face  detection, It  is  published  in  IGCV, it's  the  Internal  Journal of  computer  vision  IGCV. It's  very,  very  far. Many  big  companies  implement this  approach  in  their  product and  somehow  in  the  website. Before  the  deploying. Now,  We  understand  that. We  try  to  very  quickly find  a  set  of  the  feature and  then  based  on  this  feature  to do  a  very  fast  classification. If  we  want  to  very quickly  find  a  small  set  of  the  feature, the  good  way  is  not combine  the  original  data to  produce  each  single  feature. The  good  way  is  from  the  gable  original  data, we  just  select  some  of  them. Without  computation, we  just  directly  select  of  them. All  other  features,  we  don't  need  to  compute. But  to  s  some  to senate  a  small  set  from  a  large  pool. Then  this  large  poor, we  cannot  use  the  original  picks  of  value. Because  original  picks  of  vue, we  can  give  image, we  cannot  just  s some  pi  of  them then  to  do  the  classification. It  is  not  a  good  idea. To  senate  a  very  good  feature, a  small  good  feature. We  must  select  from  a  large  pours. This  marge  pours  must  be  informative. Just  a  few  features  are  informative. Before  the  feature  selection, we  need  first  generate  reach  features from  the  original  pixels. The  first  step  is the  so  called  feature  generation. From  the  input  image, each  individual  feature  is  just  pixel. Value. Use  a  set  of  the  peaks  value to  generate  a  rich  representative  features. This  is  a  feature  generation. Here.  But  this  feature  generation, although  in  the  prediction  process, we  only  generate  a  few  features. But  we  still  need. This  feature  generation  is  very  fast. We  can  given  a  image. We  can  very  fast  generate  the  feature. Now,  here  a  very  good  example used  in  the  la  Jones approach  is  the  so  called. This  kind  of  the  feature  is  called rectangle  feature  or  har  like  feature. Because  this  feature  is difference  between  the  age  brightness of  the  two  region. For  example,  the  difference of  the  age  brightness of  this  rectangle  and  this  shaded  tangle, the  difference  of  the  difference of  this  two  gangle, the  age  gvalue  of  this  two  gangle, the  difference  of  this  white  area and  this  shaded  area. Now,  why  is  the  difference? Because  difference  is  very  important. Difference  will  show  if we  compute  the  difference, if  you  will  show  the  contrast. The  difference  will  show  the  information. So  we  need  the  difference. Then  then  the  difference  of the  individual  pixel  is  not  reenliable because  the  value  of  the  brightness  of the  individual  pixel  is  very  unreeniable, based  on  different  positions, slight  different  position, or  snight  night  or  noise, it  will  change  the  evalue of  the  individual  pixel. So  we  use  the  difference  of the  a  g  value  or age  brightness  within  two  retangle. Why  we  use  the  ged  angle? Because  the  the  average or  sum  of  the  peaks  of g  value  within  a  tangle can  be  computed  very  fast. Why?  We  can  compute  it  very  fast. Here,  give  the  pre  processing before  we  compute  the  tangle  features. Here,  why,  we  can rapidly  compute  this  features. Now,  before  we  try  to  compute  the  feature, it  is  a  difference  between  two  rigged  angles. This  difference  between  two angles  here  just  to  show some  how  to  show why  this  could  be  a  good  feature. For  example,  in  the  nose. This  difference  of  this  area  minus this  area  will  be  very  large  in  the  nose, where  other  area  will  be  small. While  the  difference  between the  average  gi  value  of this  two  different  angle  has higher  value  around  the  eyes. This  just  to  show  why  it  is reasonable  we  use  the  difference of  the  average  gi  value between  two  different  angle. Now,  why  we  use  rectangle  because  here, rectangle  can  be  compute  very  fast. Given  image,  we  first  to generate  a  so  called  integral  image. The  integral  image  given  original  image  x  y, X  and  Y  is  a  position. Again,  I  is  a  brighten  gue. We  generate  the  so  called  integral  image I  x  y. This  is  expression  to s  to  generate  the  integral  image. Anyway,  the  integral  image  x  y, the  value  of  i  at  x  y  at  x y  point  is  sum of  all  pixels  in  this  rectangle. That  means  for  X  and  Y  from z  up  to  this  value  up  to  this  value. I  sum  of  pixels  within  this  rectangle. Then  x  and  y, will  change  from  for  example  zero  to one  z  from  1,000 to  compute  the  whole  integral  image. Now,  we  know  if  we want  to  sum  all  pix  g  value. If  we  want  to  compute the  Ixx  Y  at  this  position, then  it  is  the  sum  of  all  pixels. Now,  suppose  the  image contains  10,000  pixels, then  to  compute one  single  I  at  this  position, we  need  10,000  sums. Right?  Then  in  other  positions, we  need  199  summations and  800  summations  and  so  on. We  still  need  many  computation to  generate  this  integral  image. But  now  here,  we  try  to  find the  reputed  computation  to  avoid it  because  we  have the  summation  of  all  of  them, then  we  have  summation  of  this  gtangle, then  we  can  use this  result  to  get the  summation  of  a  larger  tangle. Just  the  area  of  this  plus some  the  increment  value. This  is  experiment  by this  iterative  approach, iterative  computation. It  is  very  easy  to  understand  that. Suppose  we  already  have  the  result  of the  summation  of  all  pixes  of  this  rectangle. Now,  if  we  want  to  get  the  value  of the  I  for  x  plus  y, this  is  x  minus. We  want  to  compute  the  area of  this  0.1  pixel  move  here. Then  the  number  of  the  pixel  is just  the  original  summation plus  the  summation  of  this  column,  right? Suppose  we  already  have  this  X  Y. Then  to  get  already  have  the  I  X  minus  and  I. Then  to  get  I  X  is just  the  previous  integral  value plus  this  column  the  sum  of  this  column. So  we  only  need  one  summation. And  then  the  sum  of  this  um  can  also  compute by  the  sum  of this  column  minus  one pixels  before  this  pixels, then  plus  the  gi  value of  this  pixel,  one  submission. From  here,  we  can  see  this  two  equation can  generate  this  i  x  y  for x  and  y  from z  1001  thousand  at  this  positions. For  each  equation,  we only  need  two  submissions. To  implement  this  for x  and  y  both  from  to  here. For  each  x  and  y, we  only  need  two  submissions. Obviously  this  is not  difficult  to  understand. We  just  use  the  previous  result  plus increment  result  then  to get  the  next  result.  That's  all. We  can  very  fast to  compute  this  integral  image. Because  each  pixel  to compute  x  Y  for  each  of  X  Y, we  only  need  two  submissions. Now,  then  after  that, we  can  utilize  this  integral  image  x  y  to compute  to  compute  the  submission of  the  pixel  value  of  any  bit  rectangle. Because  our  feature  here  is we  try  to  compute  this  difference  of the  sum  of  the  pixel  within two  different  rectangle at  a  different  position, and  even  different  rectangle, different  type  of  the  rectangle. We  need  to  compute  the  sum  of the  pixel  within  any  bitary  rectangle. Data  we  will  use. Here,  after  we  have  this  integral  image, we  can  very  rapidly compute  the  sum  of  all  pixels  in. Three  rectangle,  just  use  a  few  summations, for  whatever  size  of  this  rectangle, for  whatever  position  of  this  rectangle. Now,  for  example,  here,  show  that, suppose  we  want  to  get the  sum  of  all  pixel  vane within  the  rectangle  d. Now  if  we  already  have  this, the  integral  image,  we  already very  rapidly  compute  it  there. Then  the  sum  of  all  pixes  in this  rectangle  D  is just  the  four.  What  is  the  II  four? I  four.  I  four  is  the  sum of  all  pixes  within  this  are  rectangle, then  minus  I  two  here  this  point. I  two  is  the  sum  of  all  pixes  within  A  and  B. Then  minus  I.  Then  I  is  this  point. Then  it  is  the  sum  of  all  pieces  of  A  and C.  So  the  sum  of  A,  B, C  D  minus  sum of  A  and  B  minus  sum  of  A  and  C, then  A  is  minus  twice, then  we  plus  one. I  one  is  sum  of  a. This  summations  compute  the  sum of  all  pixels  within  it  tangle  ing  positions. Just  use  different  this  four  coordinate. To  compute  sum  of  any  at  rectangle, we  only  need  three  submissions. We  can  very  rapt compute  size  of  the  rectangle, the  sum  of  rectangle, size,  any  shape,  any  position. As  a  result,  we  can  very rapt  compute  all  these  rectangle  features, and  this  regangle  feature somehow  makes  sense. It  can  capture  the  structure  of  the  image. Here,  after  that,  we show  that  we  can compute  this  g  tangle  feature very  fast  from  the  integral  image with  all  different  g  tangle  size and  positions. And  even  by  doing  so, we  don't  need  different  size  of this  detection  window  because we  scale  the  rig  tangle. We  can  compute  this  ck  tangle  feature  with different  size  of  the  rick  tangle.  Okay. So  we  don't  need  scaling this  detection  window  is  small  and  larger. We  don't  need  to  try  different  size. We  can  just  compute  all  the  different  sorry. We  can  we  can  just compute  all  the  different  rigor. We  just  compute  different  size  of this  rectangles, can  match  different  detection  window. Okay. Now,  this  is  just  one  example to  show  how  to compute  this  rick  angle  feature. But  to  compute  this  rick  angle  feature, to  get  a  different  pattern  of  this  feature, we  can  compute  huge  number  of the  different  features but  use  different  gangle, different  size,  different  shape, different  this  compilation. He  just  give  an  example for  24  by  24  detection  ratio, we  can  very  easily  to  compute 180  than  of  the  different  features. All  these  features  may  be  although it  appears  to  be  reasonable to  capture  some  structure  of  the  image. But  so  huge  number  of  the  different  features, some  of  them  are  very  useful. Some  of  them  may  not  be  so  critical. Now,  after  we  generate such  a  huge  pool  of  the  features, the  next  step  is  to senate  some  of  them  as  the  final  feature. For  example,  from  180,000  features, we  just  sect  2,100  features. After  this  selection, at  the  prediction  process, we  only  need  to  compute  this  100  features. We  need.  We  don't  need  to compute  so  many  features. But  in  the  training  process, we  need  first  compute this  huge  number  of  features  and use  the  training  data  to select  a  few  of  them. But  in  the  predicting  process, we  can  directly  only  compute this  few  selected  features. Here,  we  need  introduce  approach, so  called  feature  selection. Now  anyway  feature  selection  has two  process  in the  training  process,  it  is  off  line. Based  on  the  training  data, positive  phase  or  phase  for  example. Then  based  on this  huge  number  of  training  data, we  can  generate  a huge  number  of  the  features. But  after  we  based  on  this  training  data, we  select  very  good  features formle  100  features  for millions  of  the  features. Then  in  the  line  detection, in  the  predicting  process, we  only  need  to  compute  this  100  features. It's  very  fast. We  only  need  to  compute all  possible  feature  in  the  training  process. This  is  offline,  only  one  times.  Okay. Here  I  give  examples  in  the  20  years  go  go, this  is  already  a  large  size of  the  training  data. In  a  Jung's  work, it  only  use  409  hundred  pace  image  and 10,000  of  the  non  pace  images to  form  a  training  data  set. And  then  based  on  that, to  do  the  feature  generation and  the  feature  set  actions. I  believe  next  step, we'll  go  to  real  algorithm, how  to  select  the  feature based  on  the  training  data. In  her  Jones  approach, it  based  on  the  so  called  adder  boost or  adaptive  boosting  algorithm  to select  a  very  effective  subset of  the  feature  from  a huge  amount  of  the  features. While  we  keep  to  next  week. Half  time  of  the  next  week, we  are  complete  this  features making  abos  process. That's  all  for  today.  Thank  you. Hello.  Hello. Hello,  hello.  Hello,  my  test. Hello.  Hello,  my  test. Hello,  my  test.  Hello,  hello. Hello,  my  desk.
