Okay,  good  evening,  everyone. So  last  week,  we  have studied  the  feature  extraction. We  first  take  the  row  data  input  data, the  original  image  as  the  initial  features. If  the  input  is just  a  small  image,  for  example, 100  by  100  size  of  the  image, then  we  have  10,000  pixes. If  we  take  the  original pixeue  as  the  feature, then  for  such  kind  of  the  small  image, we  have  10,000  features. Now,  if  it  is  a  RGB  image, then  we  have  30,000  features  in  the  input. We  take  an  example  of  use  the  PCA  and  ALTA. They  are  the  dimensionality  reduction  as the  example  to  do  the  feature  extraction. We  can  reduce  this  30,000  of the  feature  reduced  tool with  a  more  100  features. So  to  reduce  to  a  smaller  dimensions. So  to  extract  only  100  features, just  to  take  the  example. But  from  the  PCA  and  ADA, we  know  that  in  the  training  process, we  just  to  use the  training  data  to  determine  what  is the  best  projection  vector  so  that  we can  project  the  high  dimension  of data  into  now  dimension. The  training  process  is  just  to specify  this  project  vectors. Even  in  the  prediction  process, given  the  input  data, we  need  compute  if  we  want  to extract  this  100  features for  each  of  these  100  features, we  need  to  compute  use the  origin  original  feature,  for  example, 30,000  to  do  linear  combination to  extract  just  one  features. So  that  means  this  feature  extraction is  still  time  consuming. It  is  not  computation  efficient because  any  single  feature  we  extracted, we  need  to  compute  them, use  all  input  features,  input  road  datas. Again.  For  some  applications, we  need  a  fast  generate  these  features. So  we  turn  to  the  so  called  feature  section. To  differentiate  from  the  feature  extraction, the  selction  means  that in  the  prediction  process, we  only  need  to  compute  the  selected  feature. The  unselect  feature  we  don't care  about  that  don't  need  to  use  it. Only  in  the  training  process, we  need  first  compute  all  possible  features. And  then  in  the  training  process, we  select  which  feature is  important.  We  select  that. Then  in  the  online  prediction  process, we  only  need  to  compute  the  select  feature. Be  other  features, we  don't  need  to  compute  it so  that  it  is  more  computational  efficient. Now,  because  we  select  the  feature. We  just  select  the  original from  a  pool  of  the  feature to  send  some  of  them, not  combine  all  of them  to  produce  new  features. So  that  the  feature  we cannot  select  from  the  original  rule  data. For  example,  for  original  road  data consist  of  many  pixels. If  we  directly  use  this  set of  the  pix  value  to  sent  feature, we  just  select  a  few  pixels. Then  this  is  not a  good  feature  for  classification. For  a  feature  section, we  need  first  generate  a  reasonable  features. Okay,  based  on  some  of  our  understanding, where  is  the  image  structure. What  is  a  possible  feature  can be  differentiated  different  class. So  we  need  first generate  the  features  from  the  road  data. Okay.  Such  a  generation, although  we  following  some  concept, it  could  be  a  good  feature, but  we  still  cannot  100% sure  that  the  generated  feature is  somehow  is  discriminative. So  we  will  generate  a  large  pool  of the  features  from  the  road  data. This  is  why  the  first  step  is a  feature  generation  from  the  road  data. For  example,  in  last  week, we  introduced  this  so called  rig  tangle  feature. It  is  a  difference  that  means that  contrast  between  two  different  regions. So  if  we  put this  g  tangle  at  a  different  scale, different  position,  and they  use  different  shape, then  somehow  it  can capture  some  image  structures. This  rig  tangle  feature  somehow  could be  reasonable  features  can  be  used  to differentiate  different  image  structure. But  if  how  to  design  this  tangle, use  different  size,  different  shape, and  so  we  can generate  a  huge  number  of  the  features. We  are  not  sure  which  features  among this  huge  number  of  the  generate  features are  useful,  which  are  as. The  next  step  will  be  the  features. Now,  for  the  feature  selection, what  feature  we  selected, similar  to  the  feature  exction, we  need  to  use  the  training  data  to determine  or  to  specify which  features  we  need  to  select  it. But  this  is  only  in  the  training  process. In  the  training  process  after  we determine  which  feature  should  be  generated. Then  in  the  online  prediction  process, we  only  generate  this  select  feature. All  other  features,  we don't  need  to  compute  it. That  in  the  line  prediction  process, it  will  be  much  faster,  faster. Last  week,  we  already introduce  a  way  to  generate  the  feature, the  high  like  feature  or  the  g  tang  feature. Based  on  the  integral  image, we  can  see  to  generate one  rig  tang  feature is  just  a  few  submissions. We  can  faster  generate a  huge  number  of  the  features. Now,  the  next  one  today we  will  introduce  is  how  to select  good  features  from the  arche  pool  of  the  candidate  features. To  do  such  kind  of  the  feature  set  next, we  use  a  set  of  the  training  data. Right?  First  of  all, what  means  strong  feature  good  features? Good  feature  or  strong  feature, of  course,  means  use  it, the  classification  may generate  a  higher  performance, a  higher  accuracy,  or  no  AO  rate. Then  it  is  the  good  feature. Because  the  purpose  here  we select  it  is  for  the  classification. So  select  the  feature is  similar  to  select  the  cross fh  if  we  first use  each  single  feature  to  build  a  cross  fee. Okay,  we  select  the  high  performance  classpe, where  each  classper  only utilize  one  single  feature. If  we  select  this  clasphere, that  means  we  select  the  feature used  in  this  claspe  This  why here  in  the  feature  selection  method is  called  boosting  method. It  is  a  machine  learning  method.  It's  first. I  will  first  generate a  set  of  the  weak  claspeel, and  then  boost  a  very  strong  classp by  combine  a  set  of  the  weak  claspel. Where  each  weak  clasphere, only  use  one  single  features. So  to  select  the  feature here  become  to  senect  the  classphere. It's  more  easy.  What  is  a  good  clasphere? It  has  no  rate  than  other  clasphe, then  it  is  a  good  clasphere. Okay.  If  we  have one  single  class  for to  do  the  classification. Here,  we  use  this  feature  action for  the  detection  problem. Detection  problem  is just  a  binary  classification. We  have  only  two  class. For  two  class  classificing  problem, the  maximum  O  rate  is  only  50%  or  0.5. Usually,  whatever  class  f  we  choose, we  can  always  somehow  to manage  the  error  rate should  be  smaller  than  0.5. Because  the  maximum  error  rate  is  0.5. After  we  select  a  set  of  the  clsphere, or  a  set  of  the  feature, we  can  use  it  to  build  up  a  strong  clsphe. This  strong  clasphe,  together use  all  sy  feature  can  achieve  a  very, very  small  error  rate. Although  each  single  clsphere could  have  very  high  arrow  rate. Basically,  this  is  so called  boost  the  strong  crossphere. So  boost  is  a  very  famous  algorithm used  in  this  section. Here  is  a  feature  setction. We  have  a  training  data  set  consists of  the  positive  and  negative  images. For  example,  face  detection. Away  detection  is a  two  class  classification  problem. Then  we  try  to  every  time we  use  a  very  simple class  called  simple  class. Each  simple  class  only  use  one  features. And  then  we  convert sect  feature  to  select  the  class  fhere. Now,  here  in  the  boost, the  main  idea  is  the  so  called the  varieties  of  of  the  sect  feature. That  means  if  we  want  a small  number  of  the  feature, we  must  make  sure they  compensate  each  other's  floor. They  are  compensate  each  other. What  does  this  means? Now,  suppose  we  have 10,000  original  features. From  that,  we  want  sen  100  features. The  best  way,  the  optimum  way is  select  100  features  at  the  same  time. The  together,  this  100  feature together  will  perform the  highest  classification  accuracy. This  is  the  optimum  way. But  this  kind  of  sn  is  very, very  time  consuming  even in  the  training  process. You  suppose  what  is the  number  of  the  combination, 100  combination  among  10,000. What  is  a  possible  combination? It  is  almost  10,000 is  the  original  number  of  the  feature, 10,000  to  the  power  of  100. This  is  a  huge  number. Now,  for  example,  among  10,000  features, if  we  only  select  a  single  feature, we  need  to  test  this  10,000  times. Then  select  one  feature. Now,  if  we  if  we  want  to  select two  features,  they  are  best. Then  we  need  try the  combination  of  these  two  features among  10,000. Then  we  need  many  different  combinations. The  number  of  the  combination  will  be what  almost  10,000  to  a  p  that  two. Then  is  the  100  million. This  is  just  to  select  two  features. Together  they  are  the  best. Then  you  can  imagine what  is  the  combination  of 1100  among  this  10,000. So  because  it  is  very, very  difficult  to  try all  different  combination  to sect  multiple  features. Here,  one  times  we  can only  select  one  single  feature. Because  select  one  single  feature, we  only  meet  test  10,000  times. But  if  every  time  we only  select  one  single  feature, Among  the  10,000  features, we  first  select  the  best  feature. I  use  this  single  feature, I  achieves  the  highest  qu among  all  other  10,000  features. This  is  very  simple. We  can  test  10,000  times, test  each  individual  features, then  to  s  the  best  one. But  how  to  select  the  next  one? The  second  feature.  Now,  if  you select  second  feature  is  also running  the  remaining  features, 10,000  minus  one  features to  select  the  best  one  as  the  second  best. Although  it  is  the  best  among all  other  remaining  features to  achieve  the  highest  accuracy. But  it  could  be  the  second  best  feature  is very  same  or  close  or almost  same  as  the  first  feature. Then  if  you  combine  this  two  feature together  to  do  the  classification, then  the  accuracy  could  be almost  the  same.  No  increase. If  every  time  we  can only  select  one  single  feature, then  we  select  multiple  times, then  we  need  concert  to  sate  feature, it  should  be  compensate  each  other. Not  just  the  single  feature individually  can  achieve  the  best  result. I  believe  all  of  you  understand  that,  right? Now,  if  we  understand  that, the  two  facial  to  select, if  we  select  them  one  by  one, we  met  put  the  ctium, they  should  be  composent  each  other, not  just  perform  best  individually, then  how  to  do  that. How  to  make  them  composent  each  other. This  is  why  this  a  boost is  a  very  smart  algorithm A  somehow  realize  this  kind  of  send  features. They  are  compensate  each other  so  that  we  can  use  it  to  senate, for  example  100  feature  by s  single  feature  one  by  one  to  send  100  cs. Each  time  we  only  send  one  single  feature. But  we  try  to  send  feature, they  are  compensate  each  other. M  a  very  highly conate  feature  or  very  similar  features. Now,  how  this  a  boost  achieve  this  target. It  achieves  this  by  somehow  endowing the  misclassified  training  sample of  the  previous  sent  feature, put  the  higher  weightage on  this  misclassified  sample, and  then  to  s  next  feature  or  next  classify. This  weight  will  tell  us tell  the  algorithm  the  importance of  the  training  samples. So  that  the  next  sen  feature, we  are  target  correctly  classify the  training  sample  that  is  wrongly classified  by  the  previous  sect  feature. This  is  also  logic. We  s  the  next  feature, try  to  solve  the  problem  of the  previous  feature  we  already  sed. The  way  in  the  other  boost  is to  put  higher  weight  of the  training  sample  that  is misclassified  by  the  previous  features. So  this  is  the  basic  principles. But  how  to  put the  higher  weight  on this  training  sample  can  make the  next  sic  feature  we  focus  on the  training  sample  of  the  misclassified  of the  previous  feature  a  previous  snic  feature. Then  we  go  through  this  process. The  other  boost  algorithm  process. Now,  again,  first  of  all, we  have  the  original large  pool  of  the  features. For  example,  last  week, we  studied  this  reck  tangle  feature. We  can  use  this  different  k  tangle to  generate  a  feature  very  fast. We  can  generate  a  large  pool  of  the  features, for  example,  180,000  different  features. Now,  among  this  large  pools  of  the  feature, we  try  to  select  some  of  them. It  is  very  critical to  do  that  classification. We  first  design  a  simple  clsphe because  the  next  feature, the  quotium  is  if  we  use  it  in  the  clsphe, it  will  achieve misclassification  rate  or  no  rate. We  built  up  a  weak  clasph. Each  crossphe  only  use  one  single  features. Now,  if  we  only  use a  single  features  I  mean  for all  timing  data  sample for  a  different  transample, one  image  has  only  one  value because  we  only  use  one  feature. So  this  one  dimensional  feature, if  we  want  to  design  a  classp  to classify  them  into two  class,  it  is  very  simple. We  just  specify  a  trial  sata that  to  partition  a  number  xs, one  dimensional  data  into  two  parts. Large  than  chico  is  one  class, smaller  than  ice  is  the  other  class. So  we  can  very  easily  to  find  this  choice. For  example,  if  we  sort  the  value  I  syn  or desyn  we  try  to some  value  between  different  Chinese  samples. We  can  always  find  some  value between  two  Chinese  samples. Based  on  this  one  to classify  them  into  two  different  class, the  rate  will  be  smallest. We  can  very  easily  to  scan it  to  find  this  choice. Mathematical  given  a  weak  class, use  only  a  single  two, then  the  classification,  we  can design  in  such  a  way  very  simple. Here,  the  G  is  a  index  of  of  the  feature. So  suppose  we  use  the  feature  G.  F  G, the  value  of  the  feature  G  is, for  example,  the  value  of the  weak  angle  features,  we  compute  it. If  we  take  the  G  feature, we  know  the  value  of F  G  for  each  training  sample. Each  image  has  one  value. I  is  F  G.  F  G  is  a  feature. Then  we  apply  this  single  value for  one  image  apply  to  all  training  samples. Then  we  can  find  one  choice  C  G. This  is  the  choice  for  feature G.  Use  this  choice  to classify  all  training  data  into  two  class. If  this  feature  value  is  smaller than  this  tris  is  one  class, the  output  is  a  minus  one. If  it's  a  larger  than the  trico  is  the  other  class. The  output  is  a  positive  one. This  action  is  a  HG  is  a  class  G. FG  is  a  feature  G.  To  do such  kind  of  the  classification is  the  class  HG. Here,  to  specify  the  H  G, we  only  need  to  specify  what  is  the  tricot G.  All  this  is  for  feature  g. The  value  is  FG. Okay.  This  is  somehow  the  name  so  here. Of  course,  for  each  single  feature, a  single  week  classphere, we  need  specify  the  ultima  trio. Select  tim  trio  to make  the  O  rate  the  smallest. Now,  then  we  can find  the  choice  so  use  all  training  data. Training  data  because  we  can compute  what  is  the  A  rate to  use  that  training  data. So  we  can  very easily  to  specify  that  class  fh. Now,  after  that,  that  means  every  feature, we  can  have  a  class  to classify  the  data  into  two  class. Now  the  next  one,  we  will  t  go to  the  process  of  the  feature  see. Now,  for  the  feature  section, we  need  syn  the  feature, it  generate  the  lowest  error  rate. Of  course,  what  we  have  is only  the  training  data. It  must  be  lowest  error  rate on  the  training  data. So  we  first  have  a  set  of  the  training  data. The  tin  each  image  is called  a  sample  or  a  set of  the  Chinese  sample,  right? This  t  sample  suppose  is  x1x2  up  to  x  a. We  have  a  images  in our  training  dataset,  or  training  samples. Now,  for  each  20  sample, we  know  it's  class  membership. It  is  a  positive  class  or  negative  class. This  is  indicated  by  y  one, y  two  up  to  y  A. Because  it's  a  two  class classification  problem. The  value  of  this  class  ab just  put  minus  one  or  one. Minus  indicate  negative  class, positive  indicate  positive  class. For  example,  given  the  first  training  sample, if  it  is  x  one  minus  one. Then  this  training  sample is  from  negative  class. If  for  the  ninth  training  sample, we  have  X  nine  and  enable  is  a  positive  one. Then  the  ninth  training  sample is  a  positive  sample. Now,  we  understand  we  have a  cent  of  this  training  data,  right? Now,  because  we  have  a  20  samples, to  compute  the  QC  or  A  rate, we  need  compute  among  this  20  samples. How  many  are  correctly  classified? How  many  are  incorrectly  classified. To  compute  the  weight. So  we  first  put  every  20  sample  same  weight. This  weight  is  one  over  A. A  is  number  of  the  20  samples. So  all  20  sample  has  same  weight. This  D  is  some  kind  of  the  weight. We  first  initiate every  20  sample  same  weight,  1/8. Okay.  Now,  we  have  this  weighting  function. We  have  a  weights, each  weight  for each  training  samples  here  initially. Now,  the  next  one,  we  will  use  a  four  loop or  iteration  to  select the  feature  one  by  one. This  four  loop,  or  this  iteration, the  variable  is  t, t  from  one,  two,  three, four  up  to  big  t.  That  means  we  want to  select  big  t  features. The  index  of  the  select  feature  is  t, t  from  one  to  big  T.  This  big  t  is the  total  number  of  the  weak  class  f or  total  number  of  the  feature, we  want  to  select  it. Now,  in  this  iteration, we  first  introduce  in  the  first  round, first  iteration,  what  the? In  the  first  regime  for  example, we  just  take  each  each  feature  G, each  feature  g  corresponding  to each  class  G.  H  G, G  here  is  a  index  of  different  feature. G  is  an  index  of  different  feature. For  each  feature,  we  have  the  classe. We  can  build  up  the  class  fhere. We  can  use  this  feature  g to  classify  every  example  X, I  from  one  to  A. Now,  if  we  use st  G  to  classify  all  20  samples, some  20  sample  could  be  correctly  classified. That  means  equals  to  y  i. Some  20  sample,  x  i, it  may  be  incorrect  classified, so  not  equals  to  y. So  we  use  the  feature  G to  classify  all  20  samples. Then  for  all  misclassified. That  means  running  classified  20  samples. We  sum  them  together. Then  it  is  a  number  of the  20  sample  classified. Then  divided  by  the  total  number  of the  20  sample  A  is  the  errate. For  use  the  feature G.  Now,  this  divided  by  A, we  don't  need  divided  by  because one  over  A  is  already  in this  we  put  one over  A  inside  of  this  summation. Divided  by  the  total  number  of 20  sample  is  already  incremented  in this  multiplied  by this  weighting  function  one  over  A. It  is  the  same  value  for all  different  20  sample. Basically  from  here, we  understand  this  expression, will  compute  the  er  rate. This  multiply  DT  is  just  same as  divide  by  A  divided  by the  total  number  of the  20  sample  because  initially, the  dt  is  equals  to  one  over  A. Basically,  this  is  to  compute  the  O  rate. Use  the  fate,  c. Use  single  feature,  build  up  class  to classify  all  sample  x  I  from  one  to  A. Then  after  this  classification, we  can  compute  what  is the  rate  gener  reached  by  class  G, H  G  or  use  the  feature  G  F G.  This  eps  G  is  O  rate. Use  the  feature  G.  Now, then  we  can  try this  process  over  all  different  features. And  then  to  find  the  feature, the  best  feature  or  best  clasphee, it  has  minimum  error  rate. The  minimum  over  all  g to  find  the  minimum  error  rate. Then  the  corresponding  G  that  has minimum  error  rate  is  the  t.  We  have  the  HD, the  clasph  T  is  sect, or  feature  K  is  snected.  It  is  a  minimum. It  is  a  feature  among  all  other  features, it  generate  the  minimum error  rate  classification  error  rate. Now,  we  select  one  feature. Now,  after  s  one  feature  car is  the  first  feature. Then  we  need  go  through the  iteration  to  the  key  plus  one. Try  to  repeat  this  one  to  select the  next  feature.  The  second  feature. But  before  the  next  six  feature, we  need  to  do  some  computation to  change  the  conditions. Now  here,  I  sum  of  the DJ  mismatch  or  misclassified. HD  with  the  smallest  O  rate. This  is  a  pret  near. In  fact,  this  error  rate must  be  smaller  than  the  z  0.5. They  cannot  be  larger  than  the  0.5. But  in  the  originally, I  copy  this  from  the  textbook. It  has  such  kind  of  the  condition may  because  in  case  somehow  it  is  wrong, this  erro  rate  is  larger  than 0.5  e  cause  a  problem  of  the  next  step, but  it  cannot  be  usually. So  you  can  just  ignore  this  condition. Large  than  0.5  then  stop. After  we  s  next  the  first  feature, then  we  have  the  ro  rate. Then  we  met  first  convert this  O  rate  into  the  weight  of  this  class  fe. Because  some  feature  can produce  very  small  er  right. Then  NAT  in  the  strong  clasphere, we  should  main  use  this  feature. Some  feature  although  selected, the  classification  r  rate could  be  much  higher. Then  we  should  put  no  weight to  this  clasph  or  this  feature. NAT,  to  build  up  the  strong  casphe, this  feature  will  place  small. In  the  whole  strong  clasphe. The  first  step  is  convert  the  ero  rate  of the  cynic  feature  I  s into  a  weight  of  the  clasphe. How  to  convert  it,  it just  goes  through  this  formula. E  t  is  the  ro  rate  of the  s  clsphe  or  sync  feature. Rate.  Now,  one  minus  e  t  over  e  t. It  just  reverse  the  value  of the  e  t.  The  minimum  value of  the  e  t  is  zero. After  this  one  comes  to  infinity. The  maximum  value  of  e  t  is  0.5. After  that,  it  becomes  it  becomes  to  one. First,  it  converts  into  vue. N  e  into  small  value, and  map  the  range  of  the  e  0-0 0.52  from  one  to  infinity. We  can  to  take  this  role  of  this  flection, one  minus  e  t  over  e.  For  example, if  the  e  t  is  a  maximum  value,  0.5, then  we  have  0.5  over  025, it  is  a  maximum  value  one. If  e  has  smallest  value, zero,  then  we  have  1/0  is  infinity. This  fraction  converts  the  e  t  0-0 0.52  from  one  to  infinity, and  it  change  smallness  et  into  vue, Nagal  et  into  small  value. This  is  the  role  of  this  fraction  here. Now,  after  that,  we take  the  rgorithm  of  this  fraction. Why  we  take  the  rgoritm? Norgim  is  a  montic  increase  function. It  does  not  make  much  role, but  this  rgorim  is  used  here  is  because  NAT, we  will  use  this  result into  an  exposure  function. We  first  take  the  rgithm, then  expose  gin, then  they  can  cancel  each  other. Somehow,  we  are  not  make the  range  drastically  change. This  is  why  we  need  to  take  the  logarithm. Another  effect  of  the  texts  nogithm, is  it  will  change  the  range  of the  value  of  this  fraction from  one  to  infinity  two, after  rgithm,  what  is the  range  from  zero  to  infinity. Because  knowing  one  is  zero. Infinity  is  also  infinity. Anyway,  the  range  of this  one  minus  e  over  e.  This  one, the  range  is  from  zero  to  infinity. Okay.  Is  a  positive always  positive  and  from  z  to  infinity. Multiply  by  1/2,  this  one is  not  very  significant. You  can  just  ignore  why we  need  multiply  by  1/2. It  may  not  be  strictly  necessary. Anyway,  we  compute  this  alpha  t.  This  alpha  t is  the  weight  of  the  class f.  From  this  computation  of  the  Alpha  t, it  can  near  see  that. For  a  feature,  it  produce  small  rate. The  Alpha  t,  the  weight of  the  clasper  is  very  high. For  large  O  rate,  0.5, this  weight  Alpha  t  will be  approach  to  zero,  now,  zero. So  we  just  convert this  et  into  Alpha  t,  right? Now,  this  is  the  weight  of  the  clasphere. Because  we  understand  that if  we  find  a  clasphere, it  produce  a  very  small  rate, then  NT  we  will  main  use  this  clasphere, we  should  put  a  higher  weight on  this  clasphere. We  convert  this  almost  zero  rate to  almost  infinite  value. Okay.  Now,  if  a  class  or  a  feature  produce a  maximum  rate  maximum  rate is  0.5.  Maximum  value. Then  this  feature  is  almost  uses. We  should  convert  this  0.5  of  the  O  rate into  the  weight  of  the  clasp,  almost  zero. B  z  multi  anything  is  zero. It  will  effectively  remove  it. This  is  just  a  conversion of  the  value  from  ET  to  v  k. Now,  after  that,  this  formula, will  change  this  weighting  function to  training  samples. I  is  the  index of  the  different  training  sample. Okay,  G  is  what  we s  is  the  index  of  the  select  feature. G  is  the  original  feature, intexe  of  the  original  features. Okay,  this  a. Now,  then  we  will  try  to weight  or  change  the  weight of  the  different  t  samples. Because  initially  at  the  beginning, all  20  sample  has  same  value. This  is  a  constant  against  all  20  samples. But  now  we  will  change  this  weight. How  to  change  this  weight? We  update  this  BT  to next  iteration  Bt  plus,  use  this  formula. Now,  what  is  the  role  of  this  formula? Basically,  it  is  a  DT, the  original  DT  is  the  old  DD, multiplied  by  a  factor.  This  factor. This  factor  is  always  positive. Cannot  be  changed  the DT  value  into  negative  because this  factor  expos  fun the  value  is  non  negative. It's  always  positive  because it's  e  of  this  one. Now,  we  know  this  is  an  exponential  function. This  curve  is  exponential  function. The  value  of  the  exponent function  is  always  positive. Even  the  argument  of the  exponent  function  is a  positive  or  negative, but  after  exponential  function, it  becomes  all  positive, but  the  value  could large  than  y  and  smaller  than  one. Depends  on  the  argument  here  is positive  or  negative.  Okay. Here,  inside  of  this  exposure  function as  the  fact  inside  of  them, we  have  Yi  much  i  HT. Yi  is  class  is a  class  neighbor  of  the  training  sample. The  class  able  is  one  minus one  to  differentiate  two  different  class. H  t  is  a  classification  result  of the  feature  t.  Use feature  t  to  classify  the  sample, same  as  Y  is  for  sample. This  classification  result  is  also either  positive  one  or  negative  one. Now,  if  y  and  HT  are  both  minus  one, all  both  are  one. That  means  the  classification  is  correct. The  sample  is  correctly  classified  because the  classification  result  is  same  as the  ground  tools,  the  sample  class. This  product  is  positive  one. If  is  minus  one, t  is  also  minus  one, it's  the  correct  classified. The  minus  one  multi  minus  one  is  one. So  this  product  show  that  if the  synt  classp the  previous  sector  feature correct  classify  sample, then  it  is  one. If  incorrectly  classify  sample, then  this  one  is  minus  one. Now,  if  it's  the  incorrect classify  the  sample, it's  a  minus  one  minus  one multiplied  by  minus  alpha  t becomes  to  alpha  t.  Alpha  here, the  range  of  the  alpha  t  is from  zero  to  infinity. Alpha  t  is  from  zero  to  in  is  non  negative. Then  the  index  is  non  negative,  the  positive. Then  the  exposite  value is  always  large  than  one. H  is  large  than  one. E  p  of  this  one. F  t  sample,  ring  classified, then  it  is  a  minus  one, if  it's  a  running  classify the  minus  one,  then  is  a  positive. For  20  sample,  if  it's  a  droning classified  by  this  feature  previous  feature, then  this  is  a  positive. Then  the  exponential  e  part  of this  becomes  to  arg  one. For  20  sample,  this weighting  function  in  right? Now,  if  20  sample, it  is  correct  classified, then  the  same  sign. The  multipication  is  one. So  we  have  e  minus  R  f t.  Then  e  negative  value. Here,  the  exponential  value is  always  smaller  than  one. Smaller  than  one  p  is smaller  than  one,  multiply  by  dt, then  it  will  decrease the  value  of  the  dt,  right? Basically,  the  numerate  of  this  fraction, it  takes  the  rule  that  for  20  sample, if  it's  the  correct  classified, the  weight  D  is  decreased. For  20  sample  I, if  the  incorrectly  classified, the  weight,  the  DT  value for  20  sample  I,  we  increase. This  is  pretty  clear,  right? Now,  because  here  we need  to  use  the  expose  funion. This  is  why  before  that, this  t  here,  we  take  the  rgorihm. Also,  this  one,  we  compensate  each  other. Now,  then  divide  by  T, T  is  just  a  normalization  factor. Because  after  we  do  the  change  of  this  DT, we  should  normalize  the  dT  into  one. The  sum  of  the  DT  overall  example  is  one. Same  as  previously, or  the  initial  the  weighting  function. The  summation  over  20  sample  is  one. Each  20  sample  is  one  over  A. We  have  a  20  samples. After  we  justify  the  value  of  this  D, to  increase  or  decrease  it for  some  20  sample  decrease. After  that,  we  then  normalize  it  into the  sum  of  them over  20  sample  is  also  one.  No  change. This  is  the  role  of  this  divide  by  that d.  Now  we  update  this  one. Now,  after  update  this  one, D,  we  come  back  here. Use  the  same  procedure to  select  the  next  feature. But  in  the  next,  next  feature, again,  with  the  next  feature, it  produced  the  minimum  O  rate. But  this  O  rate  is  computed, not  just  simple  number of  the  20  sample  divided  by a  number  of  the  rounding  class f  20  sample  divided  by the  total  number  of  the  20  sample. For  different  t  sample, it  has  a  different  weight. Now,  for  training  example, e  is  running  classified  by  previous  feature. I  the  weight  becomes  higher. Then  if  this  classified  by  previous  one, also  running  classified  by  this  feature, then  this  value  will  be  larger. I  will  meet  to  a  rate. Then  this  feature  will  not selected  because  we  select the  minimum  AO  rate. If  for  a  feature  T, it's  running  classified  a  sample, also  running  classified  by  previous  one, then  this  one  is  a  very  large  value because  D  has  a  large  value,  right? This  is  predicar.  By  compute the  O  rate  in this  wed  sum  of the  running  classified,  T  sample, not  just  simple  sum, we  put  the  running  classified, 20  sample  by  the  previous  one, we  contribute  much  more  in compute  the  O  rate  for  the  feature  action. That  will  sect  the  feature that  has  smallest  rate  that means  it  will  correctly  classify the  rounding  classified  sample of  the  previous  features. Because  by  doing  so,  this  rate will  be  much  smaller. I  can  implement  such  of  the  role in  this  computation  of  the  rate. We  can  repeat  this  iteration and  then  at  the  end  to  select  t  features. T  This  is  the  ast  algorithm. The  main  part  is to  update  the  weighting of  the  training  sample. The  twin  sample  if  is  the  rounding classified  by  previous  features, has  higher  age  for  mix  feature. B  t  sample  has higher  age  then  to  compute  the  O  rate, it  will  generate  a  large  O  rate. Okay.  So  that,  most  likely it  will  be  selected  if it  correctly classify  the  un  classified  previously. If  it  is  also  ly  classified the  sample  classified  by  previous  one, then  this  one  is  not  the  value, so  this  feature  will  not  be  sect,  right? By  doing  so,  form some  kind  of  that  compensates of the  different  feature  compensate  each  other. Now,  after  this  iteration, anyway  we  select a  number  of  the  features  we  want. You  can  set  the  value  of  the  to  select a  different  number  of  the  features by  running  this  gm. After  we  select  the  features, each  feature  can  form a  clsphe  to  do  the  classification. Then  at  the  end, we  will  put  all  this  cusphe  together  to combine  all  this  clasp together  to  form  a  strong  clasph. This  classification  decision  is show  in  this  expression. A  t  is  a  weight  of  the  class  fee  or  weight  of the  feature  because  some  feature  could be  much  much  better  than  other  features. If  we  put  higher  weight, then  the  result  of this  classification  use  this  feature, will  take  the  major  rule to  decide  which  class. The  input  X  is, it  is  a  weighted  sum  of the  classification  result of  all  sent  features. We  have  key  feature  or  class  fee. Each  class  we  have  the  result, then  we  weight  some  over  all  sent  class  fee. Then  based  on  this  value to  determine  the  final  classification  result. So  the  Ft  side  of  this  inequity  is a  weighted  sum  of the  classification  result  of different  set  net  features. Now,  why  is  this  weak  sum,  if  not, then  half  of this  weak  sum  sum  of  the  weights? Then  is  one  crust,  otherwise, is  an  crust,  Here, I  suppose  this  class  fee  is somehow  we  design  the  class different  from  the  previous  one. Previous  one,  we  design  the  class in  result  is  one  and  minus  one. I  suppose  this  HT, the  class  Qing  result  should  be  one  or  zero. On  one  class  zero  is  the  other  class. Again,  because  the  final classification  result  output  is  also  10, not  y  and  minus  one. Now,  if  we  understand for  each  single  class  f, the  output  is  one  or  zero. Then  we  can  very  easily understand  this  expression, how  this  expression  perform the  classification  um  for  all  class. Now  if  we  b  here, if  we  move  this  sum  of  ph to  the  net  side,  what  is  that? It  is  the  weighted  sum. Divided  by  the  sum  of all  weights.  What  does  it  mean? It  means  if  all  crusphe,  output  is  one. Then  we  have  sum  of  rt  over  some  of  the  R  ft. The  result  is.  It's  a  maximum  value  because all  crusphe  class  produce  the  same  result. The  final  result  is  one. Now,  this  is  moving this  one  to  the  left  side, is  divided  by  this  summation. Now,  if  all  class  classify  this  is  zero, output  is  zero,  then  this  summation  is  zero. This  expression  will  produce  zero. If  we  move  this  one  to  here, it  is  pretty  near. This  amount  will  produce the  maximum  value  of one  and  the  minimum  value  of  zero. Where  indicate a  strong  classification  result, it  is  a  class  Y, where  zero  is  a  strong  classification. The  result  all  claspere  is  0.20. The  range  of  the  two  classification  result is  one  and  zero. Then  how  to  decide a  class  quen  result  is  1-0, the  middle  point  is  1/2. If  this  normalized  weighted  summation is  larger  than  102  is  one  class, smaller  than  102  is  1/2  is  the  other  class. The  twice  1/2  is a  midpoint  between  the  two  extreme  venue. Two  strong  classification  of class  and  class  two. We  can  understand  this  expression. But  this  is  condition. This  HT  class  result  is also  y  and  they  are different  from  previous  lights. It  is  y  and  minus  one. This  is  my  understand. At  least,  if  we  doing  so, then  this  expression  is  easy  to  understand. This  is  a  strong  classifier, built  up  by  key  weak  class, built  by  key  snack  feature. Each  feature  will  perform a  classification will  form  a  classifier.  Right? This  is  the  adder  boost. Now,  if  you  spell  has some  doubt  to  understand the  process  of  this  ad  boot  gim for  the  feature  selection, we  have  some  illustration graphically  to  visualize  this  process. In  this  visualization,  support  each  this green  p.  Green  is  the  training  samples. Altogether  we  have  2468  911  training  samples. Some  t  samples  is  a  positive  class, indicated  here  by  class  sign. Some  tin  sample  is  a  negative  class, indicated  here  in  this  negative  sign. Now,  the  position  of  this  green  one  is the  venue  is  the  fur  or  the  original  feature. The  height  of  this  one  is the  initial  weight  in  the  a  boost. At  the  beginning,  all  training  sample has  same  weight,  right? Now,  then  because for  the  illustration  visionization, we  can  only  show  this  two  dimensional  case. It  appears  to  be  we have  only  two  features  for each  example  along  this  axis and  is  one  feature. Along  this  axis  is  the  other  feature. But  we  can  image, we  have  multiple  features. We  have  many  features  we  have so  similar  features  along  this  direction. Some  similar  features is  along  this  direction. Okay,  not  just  two  features. Now,  we  have  this  set  of  the  training  data. Now,  how  a  Bost  works. It  starts  with  a  uniform  distributed  weight. That  means  all  training sample  has  same  height. Then  we  try  to  use  this  feature  to classify  all  training  data  into  two  class and  this  feature  to  classify all  training  data  into two  class  and  see  which  feature  is  the  beta. We  can  very  easily  to find  this  feature  is  beta. If  we  use  this  feature to  use  this  value  as  a  feature  to specify  a  ts  to separate  all  tiny  sample  into  two  class. Then  we  have  this  line to  separate  all  tin  sample  into  two  class. The  result  is  the  first  feature. D  claspe  is  determined  by  this  t.  We  classify all  training  data  into positive  class  and  negative  class. Now,  then  what  is  the  O  rate? O  rate  is  computed by  misclassified  20  samples. So  which  20  sample  are  misclassified? Here,  this  one,  this  one, they  are  negative  20  samples but  are  classified  into  positive. They  are  misclassified,  right? Because  they  are  misclassified. Then  after  we  say  next  this  first  feature, we  will  change  the  weight of  all  these  20  samples. So  the  misclassified  t  sample, weight  will  increase. The  correct  classified  20  sample  all  others, except  will  decrease  the  venue. This  320  sample  is  run classified  so  that  the  weight will  become  too  narger. Other  correct  classified  t  sample become  smaller. This  is  the  change  of  the  d.  Now, this  is  a  new  weighting  functions, width  of  the  tiny  samples. Now,  then  based  on  that, with  the  next  feature. If  without  the  weighting, if  we  have  a  lather  feature very  similar  to  this  connected, not  exactly  s,  but  very  similar. Have  such  kind  of  feature. Then  if  we  select  the  next  feature, it  will  select  this  feature. Also  the  classification  is  the  same  ne. Then  the  two  select  feature together  will  form a  same  classification  result. We're  not  increase  the  cc. Because  this  di  use  this  direction  use the  tri  we  produce  the  smallest  error  rate. If  we  don't  weight  the  samples. But  after  we  weight  the  samples, then  to  select  which  feature  will produce  the  minimum  error  rate, it  will  aft,  we  repeat  it, it  will  af,  it  is  this  feature. Not  this  feature. Why?  Because  this  feature  correctly classify  this  two  large  value  of  the  samples. But  if  we  choose  this  feature, then  this  two  sample  will  be  misclassified. Then  the  O  rate  will  be  larger. If  we  use  this  line, the  O  rate  will  be  smaller  because  we  have only  one  highly  weight  sample of  running  classified. This  running  classified  20  sample, the  weight  is  very  small. I  will  produce  contribute to  compute  the  O  rate. Because  of  that,  because this  tool  has  higher  tage. We  need  to  the  seca  feature  is  this  one. We  will  classify  the  data into  positive  class  and  the  negative  class. Then  now  for  the  sec  feature, of  course,  this  training  data are  misclassified. But  it  will  produce a  small  error  rate  because  all  this, the  weight  is  very  small. So  the  error  rate  will  be  small. But  anyway,  we  have four  tiny  date  sample misclassified.  Then  we  weight  it. So  this  sample  will  further  increase. This  one  also  increase, but  it  only  increase  one times  in  the  first  one  is  decreased. As  a  result,  we  will  produce  this  one. This  one  is  further  increased. Now,  if  we  select  the  third  feature, you  will  try  to  correctly  classify this  one  because  if not  correctly  classify  this  one, the  rot  is  huge. The  compute  rate  is  a  huge. The  minimum  error  rate, we  need  to  third  feature, we  try  to  classify this  feature  these  samples. This  is  the  third  sent  feature to  do  the  classification. This  is  a  negative,  this  positive. I,  this  highly  weighted  sample  because  it  is a  means  classified  by both  of  the  first  two  features. But  it  will  classified  by  the  third  feature. If  we  combine  this  class  together, it  will  form  this  classification  boundary, classify  all  training  data,  100%  correct. Use  three  features. It  will  form  such  kind of  the  classification  boundary. This  one  is  determined  by  the  first  feature. This  one  is  determined  by  the  signal  feature. This  nine  is  specified  by  the  third  feature. So  if  you  will  classify all  turning  data?  Correct. Okay,  this  is  thing  how  this  bus  works. This  is  a  very  smart  bus,  right? Now,  in  the  practice, if  we  running  this  algorithm on  the  real  data, somehow,  we  can  always  find  that. We  can  now  train  a  cross fhere  as  accurate  as  possible, even  come  to  hundred  percent  of  the  quac. All  the  rate  is  zero  if we  sect  sufficient  number  of  the  features. Increase  the  number  of the  feature  we  selected, will  increase  the  detection  accuracy, but  we  also  decrease  the  detection  speed. Because  we  have  more  number  of  the  features. But  this  is  this  is  not  the  main  problem, decrease  the  detect  speed. The  problem  is  if  we increase  the  number  of  the  signal  feature, although  it  can  achieve  very  high  accuracy, but  the  high  accuracy is  only  on  your  training  data. W  select  feature,  the  purpose  is  use it  for  the  taste  data  for  the  future  data, for  the  unknown  data  to  do  the  detection. The  training  data  will  already have  the  ground  tools. If  we  select  huge  number  of  the  feature, you  can  achieve  100%  of  Z  rate, but  they  are  on  the  training  data. It  does  not  mean  it  will  also  produce a  very  small  rate  on  the  unknown  data, not  in  your  training  data  set. Now,  20  years  ago, when  na  and  Jones  invent  this  approach, then  use  in  the  phase  detection. I  defend  that  even  we only  select  200  features. Still  it  cannot  perform real  time  phase  detection  in the  V.  Then  the  Va  Jones  is  very  smart. I  come  out  a  idea, how  to  speed  up  the  detection  process. This  idea  is  use the  so  called  the  attentional  cascade  clasp, based  on  the  fact  in the  object  detection  or  phase  detection, we  want  to  detect  the  phase from  a  large  image. We  need  to  use  a  window  or  somehow to  do  numerous  times  of  the  classification. But  if  we  scan  this  window to  the  whole  position  of the  image,  window  is  phase. Only  a  few  window  is  the  phase. This  two  class  classification is  highly  unbianced. One  class  has  a  huge  number  of  the  sample. A  large  class  only  has  only  a  few. For  example,  from  image  to detect  the  window  running  through  that, if  we  run  it  through  10,000  times, only  ten  times  phase, or  9,919  is  no  phase. We  can  utilize  this  un  bindings  so  that  we can  build  up  a  so  called  cascade  class  fhere. We  don't  use  all  the  next  feature to  get  at  the  same  time. We  only  use  the  feature  one  by  one. We  first  try  to  classify  the  candidate into  positive  class  or  negative  class just  use  one  feature. Of  course,  it's  very  rapidly. Go  go  very  rapidly. We  can  specify  the  tris  to  guarantee all  phase  are  correctly classified.  At  the  same  time. Many  phase  also  classify  into  the  phase. If  we  use  just  one  feature to  do  the  classification, we  set  the  tricle, if  the  classification  result  is  n  phase, it  must  be  ng  phase  without  the  arrow. In  this  10,000  of  the  detection  process, it  could  be  9,000 times  one  feature  classified  into  n  phase. It  is  a  false,  is  not  the  two. A  is  not  the  represent  phase,  is  a  false. It's  not  the  positive. Okay. Only  a  small  number  of the  candidate  is  classified  into  this  t, it  could  be  phase  or  non  phase. Then  the  output  of the  result  of  the  first  class  fhere, if  for  the  phase, then  we  go  to  the  next  stage. Further  to  classify  the  non  phase  or  phase. By  doing  so  if we  if  the  detection  window  is  the  phase. The  first  feature  we  are classified  into  the  phase,  sorry. The  first  feature  will rapidly  classify  into  the  phase, but  still  not  conform, we  further  go  to  at  the  end, we  conform  to  the  phase. Although  it  go  to  all  process, but  even  a  nun  phase  is  similar  to  phase, first  phase  classify the  phase  but  signal  feature, then  it  is  a  n  phase,  then  stop. So  long  as  it  is  a  n  phase,  then  we  stop. If  it's  a  possible  phase, we  further  go  to  it, but  the  possible  phase  is only  a  very  small  percentage of  all  detection  windows. By  doing  so,  it  greatly speed  up  the  detection  process. This  is  the  idea  of  the  so called  the  cascade  clasp. This  cascade  clasp  utilize the  property  of  in  the  detection. The  two  class  classification is  very  unbalanced. Mining  detection  window,  very  fast  stop. Just  use  one  feature,  then  stop  here. Already  complete.  Then  we  go  to the  next  detection  window,  fast. Only  a  few  of  them, we  need  very  fig  several  stage. Utilize  all  the  net  feature, but  this  is  only  for a  small  percentage  of  the  detection  window. You  can  imagine  should  I  be able  to  understand  how  this  one  can greatly  speed  up the  overall  detection  process,  right? Okay.  Now,  the  key point  we've  discussed  so  far. The  pace  detection  is  a  typical  task of  the  general  visual  object  detection. So  to  fast  go through  the  phase  detection  problem, we  need  fast  to compute  the  feature  and then  do  the  classification. So  here, the  Jones  approach  is approach  of  the  features  s. For  example,  in  the  other  boost, after  we  send  200  features. Then  in  the  nine  detecting  process, we  only  need  to  compute this  100  acked  angle  feature. O  as  99%  of the  ik  angle  feature,  we  don't  need  care. We  don't  need  to  compute  it. This  is  the  feature  section, not  extraction.  Okay. Even  this  100  feature, small  number  of  features  to  generate  it, we  use  the  integral  image  representation. We  can  very  simply  to compute  this  weak  tangle  feature. Be  one  feature  to  compute  it is  just  three  or  four  submissions. Then  three  or  four  submissions, we  can  generate  a  large  feature. Three  or  four  submissions  generate the  third  feature.  Very  fast. The  diles  gave  a  general  technique for  efficient  feature  sections. Forth  it  is  sent  feature  one  by  one, not  jointly  sent  a  set  of  the  feature, but  it  can  achieve  the  cent  feature, they  are  compensate  each  other. No  highly  coordinated  feature. Not  very  s  all sent  features  are  s  the  features. This  is  implemented  by  this  as  algorithm. A  general  technique  for  constructing a  cascade  capere  is  shown  here, which  basically  is  reject most  of  the  candidate  very  fastly, where  only  small  percentage of  the  candidate  need goes  through  multiple  stage. Overall  go  need  the  detection  window running  through  the  whole  image. We  can  very  fastly  complete  the  process. This  is  the  idea  of  the  so called  the  cascade  clasps. This  is  based  on  the  property of  the  old  detection. The  background  is  huge. The  number  of  the  possible  background. The  number  of  the  possible positive  is  very  small. Based  on  this  property, we  design  this  cascade  clasph, so  it  can  run  in  very  fastly, go  through  the  whole  image. I  think  we  complete  this  topic. Here,  show  an  example. The  Villa  Jones  approach  is the  first  real  time  phase  detection  system. Although  now  the  deep  learning  can detect  the  pace  is  much better  than  Vela  Jones  approach, but  this  Va  Jones  approach is  more  than  20  years  ago. It  is  before  the  deep  learning even  before  the  neon  networks. This  is  the  first  real  time and  real  time  detect  pace  in  the  Video. In  that  time,  it's  a  very  famous. Many  company  implement  this  Va  Jones  approach in  their  product  to  do  the  pace  detection. It  is  widely  adopted  by  many  companies. This  is  just  an  example, it  can  very  fastly  detect  all  face, not  just  for  one  image, even  if  it  is  a  video, every  frame  it  will  detect the  face  can  real timely  perform  this  process. Now  it  is  in  the  open  say, you  can  still  download  this  as the  Vas  algorithm  to implement  in  your  computer. Although  it  cannot  compare with  the  current  deep  learning  model, but  this  traditional  approach  in the  past  years  before  the  deep  learning, it  is  one  of  the  very  impressive  state  of the  art  approach  in the  visual  object  detection. The  principle  behind  that is  the  feature  section, and  other  boost  is  effective  feature  section. It  is  feature  that  are  compensate  each  other. Okay.  We  complete  this  topic after  the  recess  week, I  have  two  more  weeks. In  this  two  more  weeks, we  will  go  through the  transitional  neon  network MLP  and  then  go  to  the, the  convolutional  neon  network. Then  I  will  show  you  how this  convolutional  neon  network revolutionize  the  machine  learning. Make  the  machine  learning  in totally  different  perspective  compared to  the  traditional  of  the  machine  learning. Because  of  that,  the  inventor  of  the  CNN, Professor  Hinton  got the  nobel  prize  because  of  the  CNN. Then  of  course  now  the  large  model, large  language  model  and not  just  language  model, the  visual  model,  and  many  multimedia  model, all  this  large  model  are  built not  by  by  transformer. At  the  end,  I  will  introduce the  transformer,  mainly  focus  out, what  is  the  limitation  of the  Wy  transformer  solve themitation  of  that  nowadays all  this  large  model,  GPT. The  basic  elements  of the  charge  are  all  transformer. Main  transformer  are  build  up  the  charge p.  We  need  to set  what  problem  the  transformer  solved. This  topic  will  be the  two  weeks  after  the  recess. Before  the  recess,  we  have  the  quiz. Now  we  can  have  a  break. So  after  the  break, we  may  start  the  quiz  at  8:30, but  I  will  introduce  or explain  the  quiz  start  from  the  820. We  may  have  the  break,  but  come back  before  820.  Okay. A  one,  we  will  start  the  quiz. Basically,  I  first  introduce  the  system. You  will  see  that  what  you finally  get  is  just  the  GPA, O  A  minus  p.  The  GPA, if  you  get  the  so  over  e, then  you  will  get  GPA. You  will  pass  the  subject if  your  score  is  more than  higher  than  40,  slower  than  40. This  is  a  different  of the  score  map  to  the  grade. At  the  end,  what  you  have  is  this  grade, you  never  know  what  is  the  final  score. Here,  No  worry  about  if you  only  complete  75%, in  fact,  you  already  get  A  minus. Okay.  The  GPA  is  4.5. This  is  the  example.  Okay. This  coal  basically  is  a  percentage. How  many  percent  you  complete  correctly complete  in  the  quiz  or  your  final  exam. This  is  clear.  Today,  our  quiz  is  nine  quiz. You  need  to  log  into  the  Qn, go  to  our  core  site, e6222  and  then  go to  the  fourth  content  and  click  the  quiz. And  then  you  need  the  password, I  give  you  the  password  to  get  into  the  quiz. Now,  I  don't  use the  lockdown  browser  because  I don't  want  you  PC  has  some  problem, cannot  run  the  lockdown  browser then  you  cannot  perform the  quiz  Because  I  don't  use the  lockdown  browser  so  it  is  very  strictly. You  must  close  all  other  program in  your  electronic  device. We  have  ten  imaginators  watching  you. If  you  somehow  open  some  other  program, you  will  have  the  program. This  is  a  cheating,  you  receive  zero  mark. Okay.  You  can  only  open  the  program  of  the  Q. Please  close  all  other  programs  in  your  PC. We  have  ten  imaginators  in everywhere  to  watch  your  behaviors. For  this  quiz,  you  can  only leave  the  room  after  9:00  P.M. Don't  ask  me  the  reasons. Some  of  you  should  know  the  reasons. You  can  only  leave  the  classroom  after  9:00 P.M.  You  have  30  minutes to  complete  25  quits. You  don't  have  the  time  to  do  anything  else. Don't  try  to  do  something not  solve  the  quiz  by  yourself. You  really  don't  have  the  time. You  can  submit  multiple  times or  you  can  try  multiple  times. But  every  time  you  try  to  do  that, you  must  do  from  the  beginning. So  you  don't  have  the  time  to  do more  than  one  time  one  attempt. This  multiple  attempt  is  just  gave you  in  case  you  have  some  problem  in  your  PC. Okay,  somehow  you  closed  the  programs. You  have  some  program,  some problem,  you  need  to  restart. But  the  most  effective  way is  just  do  one  times  one  attempt. If  you  try  to  do  two  attempts, then  only  the  last attempt  will  have  been  marked. You  previous  one,  the  result all  disappear.  We  are  not  marked. So  try  not  to  multiple  attempt  to  try  that. Although  you  can't  do  that, but  the  best  way  is  just  one  round  to complete  the  25  quizes. This  one  you  understand because  you  don't  have  the  time. You  must  concentrate  and solve  the  problem  one  by  one. Now,  this  year  I  gave  25  questions. You  must  complete  within  30  minutes. It  appears  to  be  a  lot  of  the  questions, but  don't  worry  about  it. At  the  end,  if  the  best  of you  on  complete  for  both  70%, then  I  will  increase  the  70%  into  100%. No  problem.  I  will  normalize  your  mark. Okay.  So  just  concentrate  on  the  quizzing, try  to  solve  quiz  as  meaning  as  possible. Even  you  don't  complete  all, you  only  complete  20  or less  than  20,  no  worry. You  don't  need  to  worry  about  it. Because  100%  here, 100%  does  not  mean  you  complete  all  quizzes. Okay.  It  could  be  you  complete  20  questions already  already  reach 100  mark  or  100%,  right? But  you  need  to  concentrate  on the  quin  and  complete the  question  as  many  as  possible. Again,  you  have  the  right to  try  multiple  times, but  it  is  not a  good  way  because  you  have  mimited  the  tie. Every  time  you  try, you  must  start  from  the  beginning, your  previous  one  way  disappear. If  you  try  the  next  time. Okay,  so  if  you  complete  the  third  question, complete  something  somehow  in  20  minutes, you  have  the  remaining  10  minutes. You  try  to  do  the  second  time. I  don't  suggest  that. Because  if  you  try  the  second  time, the  result  of  the  first  time  will  disappear. You  have  on  the  final  result  of your  last  attempt.  This  one  is  me. Also  you  need  to  concentrate on  your  own  quits because  the  25  quits every  time  you  can  only  see  one  quizin, and  the  quiz  come  to  your  quien  is  randomly. The  different  student  will see  different  quizes. Most  likely,  your  neighbors  is quits  different  quits  because  each appear  randomly  every  time you  can  only  see  one  quiz. After  you  complete  this  quite, then  the  next  quite  come  out. Then  it  is  random  come  from  25  questions. Even  the  two  neighbor of  the  student  have  the  same  questions. The  answer  is the  multiple  choice  and  other  matching, they  are  also  random. It  is  almost  impossible  you  copy  others. Impossible.  Don't  try  that. Just  concentrate  on  your  own  questions. Okay,  now,  you  can  come  to the  Q  And  for  example, you'll  come  to  the  NQ  n  then click  our  cos  site,  right? I  will  try  to,  sorry. Use  the  student  preview. Then  in  the  start  page  of  the  content, you  will  see  the  quiz  here. Click  the  quiz.  You  will  see  the  password. After  the  password, you  will  start  the  first  time. Don't  do  multiple  times,  only  one  times. After  you  start  the  time  we  are  counting. After  cty  minutes, it  will  automatically  submit. Even  you  don't  submit  it, it  will  automatically  submit. You  can  start.  This  is  a  password.
