In  the  single  processing  or  processing  of the  synchro  or  spatial syndrome  or  time  syndrome. If  it  is  process  it  in that  time  domain  or  spatial  domain, it  is  always  some  kind  of  the  convolution. For  AI  system  or  T  system. Anyway,  output  is  input  convolve  with the  impulse  response  of the  for  all  AI  system. This  is  one  pin  in  all  singular  processing. Now,  I  believe  in  all  single  position, we  have  only  two  pillars. One  is  the  convolution. Another  is  the  transform. Here,  we  will  study the  so  called  far  transform. To  study  the  fue  transform, if  we  applied  to  the  image, image  is  a  function  of  the  two  variable. But  the  fue  transform  is just  a  simple  extension of  fear  transform  function  of  one  variable. It's  just  a  very  simple  extension. We  will  first  study the  fue  transform  of the  function  of  one  variable  or  a  signal. Now,  talking  about  the  transform. Many  people  confuse  with so  many  different  transform  you  have studied  and  even  you  repeatedly study  this  fuel  transform  many  times. This  is  because  the  fue  transform is  extremely  important, extremely  useful,  and  widely it  to  solve  a  man  problem. Because  it  is  very  important. And  then  why  we  have  studied so  many  different  kind  of  transform. Now,  for  example,  first, we  have  studied  a  so  called  full  year  theory. Full  year  theory  is  also  a  transform. I  transform  a  portic  sync  into a  sum  of the  fundamental  frequency  component and  it's  harmonics. Sum  of  the  main  frequency  component, all  the  frequency  component  is incase  number  of  the  times of  the  fundamental  frequency. Anyway,  full  year  theory is  already  a  transform. Transform  into  a  theory, they  theory  is  a  number  sequence. The  number  is  a  complex  number  e  indicate the  amplitude  and  the  phase  of  the same  so  wave  or  same  wave. We  start  the  study  of  the  full  year  theory, and  then  we  study the  continuous  full  year  transform. Then  we  study  the  so  called DTFT  discrete  time  far  transform. Then  we  will  study  the  DFT. That  means  the  far transform  is  a  discrete  for both  time  doming  and the  frequent  doming.  The  DFT. Then  we  have  studied the  fast  full  year  transform  FFT. Then  we  have  studied  the  non  plus transform  and  then  that  transform. Now,  I  already  missed  seven. So  many  different  transforms, many  people  confuse  it  and  also  put  a  lot  of the  time  to  study  all the  different  kind  of  that  transform. But  in  fact,  all  the  transform come  from  one  same  idea, a  single  idea,  same  ideas. If  you  sorry  fully  understand the  principle  and  the  idea  of  one  transform, you  will  very  easily  understand  all  of  them. They  are  just  some  kind  of  the  extension. The  basic  idea  of the  transform  is  just  as  the  convolution, we  have  the  convolution  in  last  week. We  can  very  easily  didate  the  convolution from  decompose  the  singular into  some  of  many  imposes. Now  here,  the  fue  transform is  also  a  single  decomposition. We  decompose  any  at  syndro  into  some of  meaning  same  wave,  same  syndromes. Now,  if  you  keep  this  in  your  mind, then  we'll  try  to understand  what  is  this  fear  transform. We  start  at  the  start  at the  continuous  one  dimensional  function, continuous  fear  transform. Now,  mathematically,  we  have the  deflation  of  the  fe  transform. The  first  line  is  a  deflation  of the  fuenfm  transform  any  F  three  singular  F  x into  a  Fu  where  x  is a  time  or  a  spatial time  singular  or  spatial  singular, where  F  u  is  a  frequency. Then  this  is  a  diflion of  how  to  gag  the  fuenf. Now,  the  next  one  is a  degradation  of  the  inverse  fe  transform. Given  FU,  we  can  use  this  formula  to  compute the  FX  to  fully  recover the  FX  this  transform is  a  lost  nas  transform. We  don't  have.  After  we do  the  transformation  transform, we  don't  lose  any  information because  we  can  use  it to  fully recover  the  original  sy  from  the  F  U. This  inverse  transform  show  that the  fe  transform  is  lost  nae  transform. Now,  from  this  mathematic  deculion, it  is  a  platica. Now  if  you  find  this  formula  is  complex, very  difficult  to  understand  or  memorize. Now,  if  you  try  to understand  the  physical meaning  of  this  decion, then  you  will  really understand  what  is  the  fans  form. To  understand  the  fans  form, we  first  see  what  is the  meaning  of  this  inverse  fans  form. Now,  from  the  definition of  the  inwards  fation  form, we  see  that  any  a  single  F  x is  decomposed  into  some  of  many  same  waves. Now,  integration  is  same  as  the  summation. It's  just  we  try  to accumulate  many  venues  together. For  discrete  number  sequin  or  signal. We  always  use  sum because  the  discrete  signal  is  acable. We  can  count  the  first point  second  point  and  third  one. It  is  acortable.  To  accumulate  them, we  always  use  the  submission. But  if  we  have  amount, it  is  a  continuous. It  is  uncomfortable. We  cannot  count  the first  signal  and  third  one. There's  no  way  to  do  the  submission. Then  we  have  the  integration. Integration  and  summation are  fully  equivalent. One  for  continuous  synlo, one  for  discrete  synron. That's  all.  Now,  if we  understand  that,  we  can  see  that. The  inward  sphere  transform  show  that. A  at  syngnal  is  equals  to sum  because  su  is  easier to  compare  to  integration. We  just  use  the  summation to  understand  this  integration. Any  apt  syn  is  equals  to a  sum  of  many  same  waves. Now,  F  U  is  not  a  function  of  the  X, that  Fu  is  just  a  scaling  factors. The  signal  in  the  right  side  of this  equation  is this  complex  exposure  function. E  p  of  g  two  Pi  U x  where  g  is  an  imaginary  number. Now, what  is  this  complex  exponential  function? We  know  that  complex  exponent from  the  basic  calculus. We  know  that  this  e  g  two  Pi  x  is  just ca  plus  g  s.  It  is  the  same  wave. It's  the  same  functions. Real  part  is  a  cosine  function. E  major  part  is  same  functions. C  and  s  is  just  in  terms  of  the  two  Pi. C  to  sp  plus  half  pi  two  p  plus  half  Pi. They  are  the  same  wave. Now,  we  can  see  the  complex  expone  function is  just  a  same  wave. Now  if  we understand  this  exponential  function, complex  expe  function  is the  same  function,  same  wave. We  can  see  any  a  syn can  be  decomposed  into  some of  the  same  waves  with different  amplitudes  and  a  different  phase. Where  is  the  amplitude. Amplitude.  Different  amplitude for  different  frequency is  indicated  by  this  magliitude  of this  complex  number  F. F  U  is  a  complex  number  because from  this  far  transform  we say  that  fue  transform  is  a  function, multiply  a  complex  exposure  function. As  a  result,  this  F  U  is  a  complex  function. Complex  function  has  the magnitude  and  the  phase. So  this  magnitude  of this  FU  is  the  amplitude  of  this  same  wave, where  this  phase  of  this  complex  number of  the  fue  transform  is the  phase  of  the  same  wave. So  any  aps  syndro  is  equals  to  the  sum  of many  same  waves  with different  frequency and  corresponding  amplitude  and  the  phase. Frequency  are  specified  by this  U.  U  is  a  variable. Here,  ample  here  is in  general  for  minus  synfin  to  infinity. Is  a  frequency  meaning  different  frequency. For  each  frequency,  we indicate  the  same  wave  for  each  frequency, what  is  the  amplitude  of the  same  wave  and  the  phase  of  the  same  wave. The  integration  is  just  a  submion. Here,  we  can  see  that f  transform  is  a  singular  decomposition. I  decompose  singular  into sum  of  same  wave,  same  functions. Now,  if  you  say  no  problem, we  can  stand  the  integration  is  a  summation, sum  of  many  functions, basic  functions,  same  functions. But  why  here  we  need use  a  complex  exposure  funtion? This  complex  sum  complex  function always  make  us  stbble. We  cannot  imagine  what  is  it. Here,  this  first  sense  is this  complex  expone  funion is  just  a  same  wave. With  real  part  and  magary  part, both  are  same  wave. We  don't  use  cosine function  or  same  function, but  use  this  exponent  function. The  purpose  is  to  bring  us  convenience, not  to  make  us  difficult. F  here. If  we  expres  this  same  wave in  terms  complex  expose  function. We  know  the  multiplication of  the  two  expose  function, the  index  is  just  summation. Now,  if  F  U  is  also represented  by  magnitude  and  the  phase, we  can  dally  see this  phase  is  plus  into  this  angle. This  angle  plus  this  one. We  can  say  because  this  multiplication, we  see  the  phase  of  F  will  sum  into this  into  this  variable  of  the  cosine  and  s, where  amplitude  magnitude  is the  amplitude  of  this  cosine  and. From  here,  we'll  say  it  bring  us convenience  because  exposure  function, the  multiplication  is  the  index  summation. Here,  we  understand  that from  the  inward  fhere  transform. What  is  the  meaning  of  this  fe  transform? What  is  the  meaning  of  F? The  meaning  of  F  is the  magnitude  of  this  complex  umber, is  the  amplitude  of  a  same  wave. The  phase  of  this  complex  umber  is the  initial  phase  of  this  same  wave. Because  this  phase  of the  F  is  diorogical  inside  of  this  one. In  the  multiplication of  the  exponent  bunching, it  is  very  straightforward. From  here,  we  can  say  we  use this  complex  function,  bring  us  convenience. It  is  more  straightforward. Now,  if  you  think  you  use the  cos  and  say  not  use  this  complete  vaning, then  it  is  not  very  straightforward. This  phase  of  this  complex  number, will  come  to  the  phase  inside  of the  cosin  inside  of  the  saying  or inside  of  this  exponential  union. Okay,  then  we  look at  the  deflation  of  the  full  year  transform, not  the  inverse  far  transform. From  the  deflation  of  the  inverse  f  trasform, we  will  say,  now, if  We  understand  that the  F,  the  free  transform, the  phasic  meaning  of  the  free  transform is  magnitude  of this  complete  number  is the  amplitude  of  the  cosine  or  same  wave, and  the  phase  of  this  complete  number  is the  imatie  phase  of  this  same  wave. And  y  this  amplitude  and the  phase  of  different  frequency can  be  computed  or  can be  extracted  by  this  formula,  y. Why  based  on  this  one, we  can  get  the  amplitude  and the  phase  for  different  frequency,  y. Now,  here  again,  we  will see  that  powerful  will  introduce the  complex  exposure  function  instead of  the  use  the  cosine  function or  sine  funion. Now,  for  example,  from  this  defulation, H,  F  X  has  only  one  frequency. For  example,  F  X  is  because  we understand  same  wave  can  be expressed  by  complex  expose  function. Suppose  this  has  only  one  single  frequency is  just  one  same  wa, has  one  particular  frequency for  example  of  Now, this  has  a  single  frequency,  for  example, one  kino  her,  only  one kino  hertz  one  same  wave, and  we  expressed  the  same  wave in  terms  of  the  exposure  funion. Now,  then  we  see this  expose  function  much by  this  expose  function. It  is  just  index  summation. The  index  will  sum  together. Then  in  this  integration, if  we  take  the  U  of  this  variable, same  as  this  frequency  of  this, same  as  the  frequency  of  the  single,  what? Then  this  summation  of the  index  becomes  to  zero. Then  we  have  this  multiplication. This  is  also  exponent  faion, has  certain  f  example  one  kino  hertz. Then  multiplied  by  this  minus  one  kino  hertz. This  u  is  a  minus  one  kino  hertz. Then  this  two  index where  sum  together  becomes  20. Then  we  have  e  to  pf  zero. E  to  pf  zero  is  a  constant  one. Now,  this  constant  one  integrate over  infinity  to  infinity,  what  the  result? A  constant  value  integrate from  minus  ing  to  infinity. What's  your  result?  Of  course, it  is  infinity. If  we  take  this  variable  u  as  this  U, same  as  the  single  frequency  of  this  sing, the  integration  is  infinity. Is  a  huge  value. Now,  if  the  F  X  has  a  single  frequency, but  the  frequency  is  not  one  ko  heart, is  two  kno  heart, but  here  we  take  u  is  one  kno  heart. What  happened? Then  this  summation  will  be  90? I  will  equals  to  1  knot minus  two  ko  hertz  here. Minus  one  kortz  is  e  g  two  Pi  one  kino  x. If  this  two  angle  are  not  exactly  same, then  this  multiplication  will also  be  a  same  wave. Of  course,  complex  expose  bunion. Now,  a  same  wave, what  is  the  integration? Result,  whatever,  from  minus  f  to  infinity. The  integration  result  could  be  minus  one, zero  or  one,  only from  minus  one  to  one  this  range. This  value  could  be  zero  could be  one  minus  one  compile  to  infinity  venue, or  a  value  where  it  becomes  to  zero. From  we  can  say  if  f x  has  a  single  frequency  component, then  this  F  u  is  a  pass. O  u  equals  to  this  frequency  of  f  x. It  is  a  infinity. If  u  not  equals  to the  frequency  of  this  sing,  it  all  zero. So  it  is  a  passe,  right? Now,  similarly  if  a  X is  the  sum  of  many  different  frequency. Then  we  can  change  this  U  to extract  this  frequency  component  one  by  one. If  we  take  the  value  of  this  variable, you  as  one  of  the  frequency  component, then  we  extract  the  magnitude  and  the  phase. If  it  is  not,  then  this  integration  is  o. This  is  a  pratical. Why?  Because  here  we  see  again  the  advantage, we  use  this  complex  exponential  function. Now,  if  F  X  has  many  frequency  component, each  frequency  component  also expressed  by  exponential  function, then  this  multiplication  is just  the  sum  inside of  this  index  of  this  exponential  function. Now,  this  summation,  we  case  that  if  21  from, one  from  here  same, then  it  is  a  constant  integration is  a  huge  number. If  they  are  different, the  integration  will  almost  zero. Because  if  they  are  different, it  is  still  a  portic  singular, still  a  same  wave. The  multiplication  result  is still  a  same  wave. If  this  two  frequency  are  different, then  the  integration  is  zero. We  only  expect  the  value  for this  U  equals  to the  frequency  inside  of  this  fx. We  use  many  different  value  of this  U  to  compute  the  strengths  of the  frequency  component  inside of  this  A  x  one  by one  to  get  a  function  of  the  frequency  u. We  understand  here, the  key  idea  is  after  this  multication, if  it's  a  constant, the  integration  is  a  huge  infinity. If  it  is  not  a  constant, then  it  is  also  a  same  wave. Then  the  integration  is  very  small, almost.  We  can  ignore  it. If  you  compare  to  infinity  value. Why?  Of  course,  if this  integration  is  not  infinite  1-1  value, that  if  it  is  a  constant, then  the  integration  is  a  huge  number. If  it  is  not  a  constant, then  it  is  the  same  wave, then  the  integration  is  zero  because the  integration  in one  period,  then  is  a  zero. Each  is  0.5  period, then  the  integration  is either  one  or  minus  one. From  here  we  understand how  this  definition  can  extract the  strains  of the  different  frequent  component and  also  the  phase of  the  different  frequent  component. Now,  we  see  the  advantage  to  utilize the  complex  exposure  function in  state  of  the  and. Now,  because  for  example, I  just  gave  you  example, cosine  Alpha  multiplied  by cosine  Beta.  What's  your  result? It's  very  complicated.  It's  coin  Alpha  plus Beta  plus  cos  Alpha  minus  beta. But  each  Alpha  times  each  of  the  Beta, is  equals  to  each  of  Alpha minus  beta.  Very  simple. We  can  very  easily  check this  multiplication  is  a constant  or  is  still  the  same  wave. If  it  is  the  same  wave, then  the  integration  result, will  have  become  very  small,  or  almost  zero. If  it  is  a  constant, then  the  integration  is  huge  and this  constant  hyphen  when  the frequency  in  a  s  as  this. We  have  one  positive,  one  negative  Alpha. Then  the  sum  this  Alpha plus  minus  Alpha,  then  is  zero. Zero  is  a  constant. From  here  we  understand how  use  this  decoration, we  can  compute  the  strains of  and  initial  phase of  the  different  f  component. Okay,  so  this  show  pretty  clear,  right? Now,  we  see  this  FU  is  a  complex  number, it  has  a  complex  number, can  have  the  real  part  plus  g  e  may  part. Complex  number  can  be a  magnitude  times  e  g  phase. This  complex  number  of the  fe  transform  if  we represent  it  in  terms of  the  magnitude  and  phase, then  the  phasic  meaning  of this  magnitude  and  phase of  this  complex  number of  the  feel  tf  is  a  pre. I  is  just  an  amplitude  of  the  same  wave  and the  initial  phase  of the  same  wave  for  particular  frequency. Now,  this  is  a  continuous  fear  trasfm. Now,  if  we  understand  this  one  dimension  of fe  transform  or  a  free  transform of  a  function  of  one  variable. Now,  for  the  image, we  have  the  function  of  the  two  variable. It's  just  a  very  simple  extension. We  just  do  the  fe  transform  twice. Original  division  is  given a  function  of  the  two  variable. Image  is  a  function  of  the  two  variable. Multiplied  by  this  one, u  and  v  are  two  frequency. U  is  a  frequency  none  the  x, is  a  frequency  non  the  y. This  is  the  definition  of the  two  dimensional  feel  transform, or  the  fuel  transform of  the  function  of  the  two  variable. Now,  we  say  this  is a  very  simple  extension because  from  this  formula, we  can  very  easily  to simplify  it  to  gate  its  physical  meaning. This  again  come  from the  nice  propity  of  this  exposure  funion. Exponential  function  of  x  plus  V  y  is just  multiplication of  the  two  exponential  function. We  can  very  easily  if  we  write this  exponential  function  into multiplication  of  this  tool. This  come  from  the  nice  propity of  the  exponential  function. Now  here,  if  you  use the  core  same  function  or  same  function, we  cannot  get  it  very  easily, is  the  multiplication  of  the  tool. Okay.  But  for  the  exposure  union, it  is  very  easily.  We  can  get  this  one. Then  from  this  one,  we  can  very  easily get  how  is  this  difation? The  diferation  is  just  given  ending  function. We  just  to  do  a fue  transform  a  n  one  variable. Then  after  that,  we  do  a fue  transform  again  a  lather  variable. That's  all.  It  is same  as  the  one  dimension  fe  transform. We  first  take  X  as  a  variable. Whatever  number  of  the  variable, we  just  take  one  as  a  variable, then  use  this  function  of  one  variable  to  do a  fan  form  just  from the  deflation  of  the original  deflation  of  the  fan  form. Now,  after  we  have  that, then  we  do  ff,  use  another  variable. Obviously,  we  can  extend  this  one  into fue  transform  of  the  510  variables. Okay.  We  say  the  far  transform  is  separable. The  two  dimensional  fue  transform is  just  to  complete the  one  dimension  f  transform  twice. In  this  in  this  expression inside  of  the  blackd  is just  one  dimensional  far  transform. Outside  of  this  dimension, if  we  take  inside  of this  dimension  is  a  function  of  the  y, then  it  is  also a  one  dimensional  fear  transform. Exactly  se. Is  no  difference.  Again, the  complex  exposure  function is  just  a  cosine  and  the  s  is  the  same  wave. It's  the  same  thing.  We  introduce the  complex  exposure  function, bring  us  a  lot  of the  advantage  because  it is  just  the  angle  sum  together. Well,  if  we  use  the  or  fun, the  two  function  or at  the  same  function  multiplication, the  result  is  very  complicated. Here,  we  see  this  convenience  by  introduce this  complete  exposure  union  instead of  simply  use  a  real  function  cosine  or  sine. No,  but  still  many  people  find  trouble  to understand  a  complex  number  or complex  function.  Complex  function. To  understand  that,  we  just need  to  understand  a  complex  number. Whatever  function  is a  complicated  amount  of  the  function. An  function,  if  we  use  expression, it  is  just  the  same  as  a  number. R,  R,  whatever  that. It  is  just  the  value  of  the  r plus  the  value  of  the.  That's  all. The  value  of  r  is  just  one  number. The  property  of  all  this  complex  function is  same  as  a  complex  number. A  complex  function  can be  expressed  by  real  part, e  mad  part,  or  magnitude  and  the  phase. If  we  know  one  form, we  can  very  easily  to  compute  a  larger  form. Magnitude  is  a  real  part  square plus  e  mad  square  square  root, and  the  phase  and  so  on. This  is  very  straightforward  because  this  is just  from  a  basic  diflation, what  is  a  complex  number. What  is  the  complex  number? Complete  number  is  just  a  two  number. We  want  to  study  two  number at  the  same  time  together. We  integrate  two  number in  terms  of  one  complex  number. Use  this  g  to  separate  this  two  number. Because  in  many  application, we  need  to  study  two  number  at  the  same  time. Given  a  map.  If  you  want to  specify  one  location, we  must  use  two  number. One  number  cannot  say  what  is the  location  of  in  a  two  dimensional  map. In  many  application,  we  need to  study  two  number  at  the  same  time. Complete  number  is  just  two  number. This  two  number  can  be expressed  interim car  descent  coordinate  system. Real  part  and  mater  part. If  we  use  a  cardin  coordinar  system, we  use  the  homes  axis indicate  the  real  real  part, and  vertical  axis indicate  the  imagery  number. A  complete  number  is just  a  real  part  plus  the  emery  part. Now,  this  is  a  caption  system  right  here, in  complete  number.  It  is  a  two  number. It  is  a  point  in a  plane  because  a  plane  has  two  axis. This  different  complete  number  is just  different  different position  in  this  plane. A  point  can  be  specified  by  what is  the  value  in  the  hot  axis? What  is  the  value  of  the  vertical  axis. We  have  the  real  part  and  in  medal  part. We  can  also  use  a  polar  coordinate  system. If  we  use  a  polar  cod  system, then  this  point  can  be specified  by  the  radius, or  the  magnitude  and the  phase  or  the  angle.  They  are  equivalent. That  complete  number  can  also represented  by  r  times  e  above  five, where  if  we  know  what  is  A  and  B, we  should  very  easily compute  what  is  r  and  five. If  we  know  what  is  r  and  five, we  can  very  easily  compute what  is  A  and  B  just from  a  simple  trichlorometry,  or  geometry. It  is  a  predicon  here. Now,  for  all  complex  number and  complete  function, if  you  keep  this  original  definition very  firm  in  your  mind, you  have  no  problem  to handle  all  complex  number  problem. Complex  number,  complex  function. If  you  always  keep this  very  clear  in  your  mind, you  can  handle  all  of  them.  No  problem. Of  course,  one  sen  you  need  to  know  is the  g  is  square  root  of  the  minus  one. That's  all.  There's  no  more  than  that. In  this  function  and  in  this  number, the  relation  all  this  formula  are  equivalent to  the  C.  Okay. Now,  the  fue  transform because  this  course  graduate  student. Some  students  ask  us, we  nature  the  computer  vision. Now,  the  computer  vision  always  use the  deeper  C  and  the  transformer. Why  we  need  the  fu  transform? It  appears  to  be  now  we  have the  A  I  have  this  larger  model. All  this  transitional  theory is.  It  is  not  true. Now,  for  example,  just  last  year, I  published  one  paper  to  utilize the  fuel  transform  after  the  fuel  transform, we  can  separate  the  magnitude  and  the  phase. Well,  if  we  want  to  get the  three  D  information from  just  a  single  image. A  single  image  is  just applying  a  two  D.  How  to  get the  st  dimensional  information of  this  two  dimensional  image. If  we  do  the  fue  transform  of  the  image, we  have  the  magnitude  and  the  phase, where  the  magnitude  is closely  related  to  the  strings  of  the  night, and  the  phase  will  closely related  to  the  structure  of  the  object. Based  on  that,  we can  get  the  beta  information, a  so  called  sterile  information  that  is the  three  dimensional  information  of a  22d  image  to  extract  or estimate  the  three  D  informations. Of  course,  to  do  that,  not just  use  the  Fu  transform. We  can  also  use  some  deep  model  together  to extract  this  three  d  information from  a  single  two  dimensional  image. This  is  one  example  and  this  is published  in  TJ  Palm  Master. Now,  we  have  studied this  continuous  fue  transform, because  continuous  fue  transform, we  have  more  powerful  mathematic  tools. Now,  in  our  practice, we  have  the  digital  image. Okay,  digital  image,  we  have  pixels. It  is  just  a  matrix. Image  is  a  matrix, so  we  cannot  compute  the  def based  on  the  definition  of fue  transform  to  do  the  integration. Given  a  discrete  sgo, how  to  do  the  fue  transform. Now  here  we  have  the  definition of  the  discrete  fue  transform, the  so  called  DFT. Now,  how  to  understand this  definition  of  the  DFT. To  understand  that,  we  do a  comparison  to  compare with  the  continuous  fan  form. I  just  take  f  transform  as  an  example. Inward  fan  form  are  exactly  the  same. We  compare  the  f  transform  for discrete  and  the  f  t  form for  continuous  function. We  see  what  is  the  difference? What  is  the  similarity? Now,  from  here,  we  have the  definition  of  the discrete  fi  transform  here. First,  we  first  ignore  this  divided by  divided  by  A and  n  is  the  size  of  the  image. Suppose  the  image  size  is  by n.  We  first  totally ignore  we  don't  divide  by, don't  divide  by  n.  Then  you  see  what  is the  difference  of  this  expression and  the  continuous  fi  transform, we  just  studied  this  expression. What  is  the  difference?  The  only  difference is  just  we  change the  integration  into  submission.  That's  all. There's  no  other  difference. Of  course,  in  original  diflation  here, we  use  minus  sympy  to  infinity  is  to  make this  diflation  more  general can  be  applied  in  any  case. For  specific  digital  image  here, we  use  the  submission  is  only within  the  image  image. It  is  just  the  sum  over  all  pixels. But  no  problem,  we  can  also  change this  submission  from  minus  sympy  to  infinity. No  problem,  we  just  assume the  image  vue  outside  of the  image  or  zero.  That's  all. B  zero,  sum  with anything  are  not  change  the  venue. Similarly,  for  this  diflation of  the  continuous  transform, if  the  f  x  y  is only  non  zero  within  some  range. Then  of  course,  this  dfation  will  be equivalent  to  the  integration within  this  range. Because  all  the  zero  of the  integration  is  also  zero. We  can  say  from  here  to  here from  the  continuous  one  to  squte, the  only  difference  is just  change the  integration  into  the  summation. Now,  for  continuous  one, we  want  to  accumulate  all  ne  together, we  must  use  the  integration. For  discrete  one,  we  must  use  the  summation. There's  no  other  difference. Now,  again,  we  will understand  for  the  continuous  signal. The  signal  if  it's  the  same  wave, the  frequency  U  can  be  one  kno  hertz, 1  million  kno  hertz, can  be  also  very  large  value  or very  small  value  because  we understand  what  is  the meaning  of  the  frequency. What  is  the  meaning  of the  frequency  and  wave? Frequency  is  inverse  of  the  period. Given  a  same  wave, we  made  that  what  is one  period  of  the  same  wave. Then  the  inverse  of  this period  is  a  frequency. Now,  if  the  sn  though the  function  is  a  continuous  function, then  the  value  of  the  period  can  be real  number  can  be 1000002nd  1  hour  or  two  days, can  be  one  mii  second,  0.0  1  second. No  problem.  In  terms of  the  continuous  function. Of  course,  I  give  this  example. I  assume  this  variable  is  the  time, because  this  is  easier  to  understand, can  be  one  bili  second, can  be  1  hour,  low  problem. But  if  the  function  is  a  discrete  function, what  is  the  meaning  of  the  frequency? Again,  same  as  continuous. The  meaning  of  the  frequency  is also  inverse  of  the  period. Then  for  discrete  sing, what  is  the  meaning  of  the  period? For  continue  syn,  the  meaning  of the  period  is  what  is  the  ns  all  the  time. Time  lens  can  be  second  1  hour, one  min  very  short,  very  large. But  for  discrete  syn, what  is  the  meaning  of  the  period? What  is  the  unit? For  discrete  syndrome,  we  have only  the  sample  one  sample  two  sample  three. We  have  the  discrete  point. Then  what  is  the  unit  of  the  period? The  period  is  within  one  said  period. How  many  samples? Then  this  meaning  of  the  period for  discrete  syndrome, how  many  point  we  have? Because  sy  is  a  number  syn is  a  meaning  point. The  period  is  just  the  number of  the  point  inside  of  one  period. What  is  the  possible  venue  of  the  period? Within  one  period,  we  can  have 2.3  0.4  point,  and  so  on. Can  the  period  0.5  point? Impossible.  For  discrete  sing, the  period  is  a  number  of the  point  within  a  period, you  image  the  discrete  point  a  sing. The  period  is  number  of the  point  inside  of  one  period, so  the  period  must  be  narg  than  one, cannot  be  smaller  than  one. The  number  of  the  point. Within  one  period,  we  have  two  point. Two  point,  in  fact,  is the  he  is  the  shortest  period. In  the  same  wave. I  one  period  if  the  period  is  two. That  means  the  same  wave has  value  one  minus  one, one  minus  one,  one  minus  one. Then,  the  period  is two  is  the  possible  period. But  never  mind  because we  have  the  complex  same  wave. Away  the  period  must  be  larger  than  one, cannot  be  smaller  than  one. Now,  if  the  period must  be  larger  than  one,  what  does  it  mean? Then  the  frequency  is the  inverse  of  the  period. For  sing  squat  sing, the  frequency  and  must be  what  smaller  than  one. Because  the  period  must  be  larger  than  one. Frequency  is  the  inverse  of  the  period, the  frequency  must  be  smaller  than  one, cannot  be  larger  than  one. This  is  a  pica.  This  is why  we  know  that  DTFT, the  discrete  time  fue  transform. That  means  that  A  x  y, the  function  is  a  discrete  value  X and  Y  are  integer, but  it's  free  transform  U and  is  a  continuous  variable. We  call  it  DTFT  discrete  time  free  transform because  the  free  transform  is  a  continuous. For  DTFT,  then  the  frequency U  and  is  a  continuous must  be  smaller  than  one. If  it  is  larger  than  one, it  is  equivalent  to some  value  smaller  than  one. You  can  very  easily  to check  if  we  have,  for  example, cos  two  pi  is  integer, if  your  F  is  larger  than  one, 1.5,  is  the  same  as  0.5. Is  equal.  If  you take  the  frequency  larger  than  y, it  is  just  equal  to  a  value  smaller  than, some  values  smaller  than  one. You  can  very  easily  to  verify  if  the  x and  y  are  integer  can  only  be  integer. Anyway,  for  DTFT,  if  u and  can  be  continuous x  and  y  are  integer  discrete, then  the  frequency  and must  be  smaller  than  one. Now,  if  this  u  and  must  be  smaller  than  one, then  how  to  make  this  u  and  w  is  a  discrete. We  want  to  compute  the  free  transform  also discrete  where  u  and we  want  to  take  value  one, two,  three,  45  up  to  up  to  n, how  to  make  it  possible. We  know  that  discretion  grow  is a  sample  from  the  continuous  syndrome. That  means  we  need  to  sample the  U  from  z  to  one, sample  it  point  or  n  point. Inside  of  continuous  value  0-1, we  need  sample  it  meaning  point. We  need  sample  point  or  n  point. Then  what  then  because  of  that, I  and  the  value  must  be  smaller  than  y. Now  in  the  transform  if  we  divide  by  A, then  over  a  must  be  smaller  than  y, then  can  be  just  smaller  than  A. This  is  why  in  the  DFT, if  we  want  to  take  u  and is  also  integer  z  one,  two,  three, 45  up  to  up  to  n.  Then  in  the  diflation, we  need  divided  by  m  divided  by  n  so that  can  take  the  value  from  zero  to  A. Can  take  the  value  from  z  to n.  Because  if  divided  by, you  take  the  value  from  z  to, then  after  divided  by  m, then  over  the  value becomes  two  from  z  to  one. This  is  why  we  introduce this  divided  by  m  divided  by  n. This  is  just  to  make  the  value  of  the  u and  n  here  is  from  z  to  A. We  can  take  the  discrete  value  of  z  U  one, two,  34  up  to  A. If  we  don't  divide  m  divided  by  n, then  the  u  and  can  only  take  the  value  from z  to  one  cannot  be  larger  than  one. But  to  compute  the  form, we  want  to  take the  integral  value  of  the  u  and v.  We  can  compute  this  different  point. This  is  why  we  divided  by  m  divided by  we  have  the  DFT. In  the  single  processing, we  have  the  DTFT  and  then  DFT. DTFT  di  we  don't  divide  by  divided  by  n, but  the  u  and  w  is  continuous. The  value  can  only  be  from  to  one. After  we  divide  by  divided  by  n, we  can  make  this  and  also  integer, but  from  z  to  and  from  to  n.  We  have  the  DFT. Both  X  and  Y  and  u  and integer  discrete  value.  Okay. This  is  why  we  have  such  kind  of the  definition  of  the  DFT,  right? Now  here,  one  over  a  times  n  is  optional. It  is  not  important. You  can  take  this  one  here or  take  this  one  here. Some  definition  even  take  the  both, but  the  square  root  of the  whatever  is  no  problem. This  is  not  important. Because  after  we  have  the  fue  transform or  after  inverse  go  to  the  image, the  very  important  is a  reintive  value  within  the  image. The  relative  value  within  the  fue  transform. You  mute  constant  does  not  make  any  role. This  multiplies  constant  here, is  just  to  make  the  exactly  equal. Otherwise,  it  may  have the  effect  of  a  constant. This  is  why  I  use  the  green  cer  here. It  is  not  important. You  can  just  ignore  it. No  need  to  memorize  it. Sam,  the  discrete  fue  transform  is  also just  two  times  one dimensional  discrete  f  transform. We  can  take  the  fue  transform  along  one  axis, and  then  after  that,  take the  free  transform  gther  axis. Because  them  and  integration, the  property  are  exactly. What  property  we  have  for  the  integration, we  also  have  in  the  summation,  right? This  is  pretty  clear  so  that  given an  image  to  compute the  two  dimensional  fe  transform, we  can  take  the  one  dimensional fe  transform  for  each  row. Then  after  that,  we  take the  second  fe  transform  along  each  corner. Then  we  get  the  two  dimensional  fenf. Okay.  Now  he  should  the  property. As  I  mentioned  that,  if  we  take the  free  transform  divided  by  t  divided  by  n, then  and  can  be  continuous  variable, but  smaller  than  one. Value  than  one  can convert  into  a  value  smaller  than  one. It  is  a  potic  function  with  period  of  one. Now,  we  discrete  this  u  and  w  as the  integer  and  take the  value  from  z  to  and  z  to  n, then  it  is  a  potic  function with  the  period  of  the  and This  is  very  straightforward. So  it's  a  pootic. This  perotic  is  also  come  from the  concept,  y  quick  sing. The  f  transform  the  frequency can  only  take  a  value  from  z  to  one. Because  you  take  more  marginal  value, it  is  just  repeat. The  function  value  is  just  repeat  itself. So  it  is  a  poredic  fun. Of  course,  the  free  form is  a  conjugate  symmetry. This  is  also  understand  because  image has  a  times  a  different  pixel  value. After  we  take  the  free  form, we  also  have  the  A  times  value, but  it  is  a  complex  number. That  means  we  have  two  times  of  this  value. So  obviously,  the  information  is  redundant. It  is  a  congugate  symmetry. Only  half  of  the  value is  take  real  information. A  lather  half  is  just  repeat. Is  a  congugate  symmetry. Cgugate  symmetry  means magnitude  asymmetry  phase  antisymmetry, right? From  the  dclation  of  the  fue transform  continuous  one  or  discrete  one, we  know  it  is  a  linear  transform. So  it  has  linearity  here. This  is  a  nary  property. The  weighted  sum  of  the  function  to  to the  fue  transform  is  equals to  the  fue  transform  of  each  terms. Then  we  use  the  same  weighted  sum. Right?  This  is  a  property  of  the  met. For  the  scaling,  we  have this  inverse  of  the  property. Be  in  one  domin  if  we  scale  the  variable, we  string  the  variable, then  in  other  domain we  comprise  the  variable. We  can  understand  that. Constant,  it  is  very  flat. Then  it  fans  form  is just  a  very  narrow  impasse. Because  a  constant  has only  a  one  frequency  component, the  frequency  is  zero. Is  the  impasse.  Well,  I  impasse  in  one  dom  it means  the  value  very rapidly  change  and  it contains  rich  frequency  component. Its  frequency  it  is  very  flat. We  can  ertand  this  scaling  property. Now,  a  very  important  property is  a  so  called  convolution s.  Be  a  single  go  to  a  system, the  output  is  a  convolution. This  property  is  a  very  important  convolution in  one  domain, is  equivalent  to  the  multiplication in  a  lather  domain. For  example,  two  functions convolve  in  the  spatial  domain  is equivalent  to  just  the  multiplication of  the  two  fs  form. For  the  two  corresponding fs,  is  a  multiplication. S  the  multiplication  in one  domain  in  another domain  is  a  convolution. But  in  the  practice, we  always  process the  digital  single  digital  image. Many  text  book  even  ignore  it. This  property  is only  tool  for  continuous  functions. For  continuous  spatial  function  and continuous  f  and  form  we  have  this  property. If  it  is  a  digital singular  or  discrete  function in  the  both  doming, then  this  is  not  true. If  it  is  a  discrete  singular, then  the  multiplication  in  one  doming in  a  lather  doming is  not  equivalent  to  convolution, it's  equivalent  to  what  circular  convolution. If  you  come  from  a  single  processing, you  should  know  what is  a  circular  convolution. Okay.  But  circular  convolution can  convert  into  a  normal  convolution by  us  zero  padding. We  extend  the  singular  into  non  or extend  the  image  into a  larger  image  with  meaning  zeros. Then  the  circular  convolution are  same  as  the  linear  convolution. Because  circular  convolution  is the  whole  singular  form  a  circle. Then  we  know  that  convolution, we  need  to  heft. The  circular  shift  then  is  that all  singular  point  is a  a  circle  to  do  the  shift. This  is  the  circular  convolution. But  the  linear  convolution  is we  shift  the  align, But  given  a  singular  has  a  certain  ns. If  we  use  a  zero  to extend  the  singular  into double  size,  double  ns. Now,  then  we  form  a  circle. Then  in  the  circle  half are  singular  half  as  zero. Then  if  you  do  shift, then  it's  the  same  as  a  linear  shift. Be  a  half  as  zero. From  there,  we  understand why  based  on  padding, then  the  circular  convolution  can  be used  to  compute  the  minia  convolution. That  after  we  use z  padding  to  extend  the  singular, we  can  apply  this  property  convolution and  the  multiplication. But  the  sing,  the  two  singular must  use  the  Z  padding  first. Translation  property  and  the  rotation pro  translation  from the  translation  property, we  see  that  the  magnitude  of the  fui  transform will  be  translation  invariant. Because  the  translation  of  the  symbol in  the  fui  do  mean  is  just  multiplied by  this  factor  where this  factor  is  a  complex  function  and  then all  this  one  only  affect the  phase  of  the  complex  number, not  change  the  magnitude of  the  complex  number. The  magnitude  of  the  fe  transform is  the  translation  environment. That  means,  given  a  constant  background, we  have  one  object. Then  we  compute  the  feel  transform. If  we  move  this  object  into  a  lather  place, then  do  the  fan  form, both  fans  form  has same  magnitude  exactly  same. We  change  the  position  corresponding  in the  fuel  transform  is  just  a  change  in the  phase  of  the  fan  form. The  magnitude  will  keep  s.  Now, this  translation  variance,  of  course, is  important  to  the  object  recognition. Because  we  want  to  recognize  object, it  is  a  car  or building  for  whatever  position  the  car  is. We  need  to  extract  the  feature, it  is  a  translate  variant. If  we  take  the  f  form, only  use  the  magnitude  of  the  fan  form, then  it  is  a  translation  enviart. But  the  fi  transform is  not  rotation  environment. If  we  rotate  the  object, then  the  fid  transform  in the  frequent  doming  is also  rotate,  same  angle. Here,  we  use  the  polar  coordinates because  in  the  polar  coordinate  sys, we  can  very  easily  see  how is  this  rotation  in  the  fi  transform, the  rotation  angle  and  in the  spatial  domain,  the  rotation  angle. Because  of  that,  the  fluid  transform is  not  rotation  enviroment. Now,  in  some  application, we  need  to  recognize the  object  for  whatever  of  the  rotation. We  need  to  expect  the  feature, it  is  a  rotation  environment. In  some  application  will  show  some  advantage. Be  the  fi  transform  is  a  translation  v, because  the  fi  transform is  to  do  the  transform along  the  two  axis. It  is  very  strict  If  we  represent the  image  with  the  polar  cod  ma  system. Then  we  have  two  xs  r  and  theta. Then  if  we  do  the  fue  transform a  alone  the  r  and theta,  si  fue  transform. Similar  to  the  fue  transform, then  this  transform  will  be the  magnitude  of  this  transform will  be  rotation  environment. Because  of  that,  such  kind  of  the  transform, we  call  it harmonic  transform  polar  harmonic  transform because  it  is  in  the  polar  stream. For  such  kind  of the  transform,  after  the  transform, if  we  take  the  magnitude  as  the  feature, it  is  the  rotation  environment. This  work  is  also  published  in  transection on  P  of  many  years  ago. Here,  also  show  another  work. I  already  mentioned  that  how  to  use the  fue  transform  magnitude  and phase  to  indicate  given a  two  dimensional  image, what  is  the  information  of  the  19  strengths? What  is  the  information  of the  structure  in  the  sing  in  the  object? You  can  separate  it  by the  magnitude  and  phase  of  the  ff. Here  show  an  example, what  is  the  fi  transform  here  gave  a  image. We  have  inside  of  the  image, we  have  just  a  square. Then  it's  fue  transform, we  will  be  a  two  dimensional  sync  functions. If  you  come  from  the  single  procession, you  know  what  is  the  sync  function. It  is  very  famous  functions. An  rick  tangle  function is  f  transform  is  a  sync  function. This  is  the  shape  of  the  sync  function. Okay.  Here,  although the  object  is  the  square. But  the  ck  function  horizon and  vertically  the  ways of  the  sin  function  are  different. This  is  because  the  image the  whole  image  size  is  not  a  square. Relative  to  the  whole  image  size, then  this  object  is  not  a  square. Although  it  is  physically  square, but  if  we  normalize by  the  width  and  height  of  the  image, then  it  will  not  be  a  square. Here,  this  one  will  show if  we  rotate  the  object, then  the  f  transform  is  also  rotate. This  is  the  image.  Of  course, the  brighten  is  indicated by  the  value  of  the  A,  right? Image  is  a  two  dimensional  function, function  of  the  two  variable. The  f  value  is  green  or  brighten  as. The  value  of  the  f  will be  specified  by  the  brighten  as  in  this  one. Similarly  fe  transform  the  magnitude  of the  fe  transform  is also  a  function  of  the  and  the. Then  the  value  of  the  f  can  be indicated  by  the  bright  in  this  image, or  the  height  in  this  three  D  plot. This  two  different  plot of  the  same  functions. We  can  plot  this  if  in three  dimension  in  this  axis. We  have  three  axis. We  can  also  plot  this  function  in  two  D, but  use  the  brightness  to  indicate  one  venue. One  of  these  three  value,  we  have  value. This  dept,  we  have three  xs  to  specify  these  values. In  this  image  representation, we  use  U  and  value  are specified  by  the  two  spatial  coordinate. Of  course,  frequency  coordinate, the  value  f  is  specified  by  the  brighten. There  are  two  different  way to  plot  these  functions. Here,  I  missed  some  properties and  also  some  fue  transform  piles. This  is  just  for  the  completeness of  the  fue  transform. I  will  not  go  through  the  details. This  just  gave  a  table. If  you  meet,  you  can also  refer  to  the  tables. Now,  the  fue  transform  is very  important  because  based  on  that, we  can  study  the  so  called  sampling  theory. Sampling  theory  is  to  study  the  theory  to convert  continuous  function into  a  discrete  functions. Well,  if  we  say  we  have  the  digital  image, then  that  both  X  and Y  and  A  are  digital  are  discrete. But  the  value  discrete  or continuous  will  not  affect  too  much, but  X  and  Y  is  a  continuous  or  discrete, will  make  a  big  difference. We  sampling  this  means  to discretize  the  continuous  value  X  and y  into  a  discrete  value and  Here  we  will  study  the  sampling  theory. Now,  sampling  theory  is very  important  because  it connects  the  continuous  function with  the  discrete  function. Although  our  image  or  our  digital  image. Original  data  is  digital, is  discrete,  not  continuous, but  we  still  need  utilize the  powerful  mathematics for  continuous  functions. In  image  processing  or  image  analysis, sometimes  we  just  treat  the  image  as a  continuous  function  because we  can  use  differentiation, we  can  use  the  integration  and the  many  powerful  mathematic  tools. We  need  to  understand  what  is  the  relation between  a  continuous  function and  the  discrete  function. Now,  will  go  through  this  topic is  also  because  many  people  find this  sample  theory  is  very  confused. Because  if  you  go  to  the  sample  theory, you  will  see  the  continuous  function where  all  cont  syn  will  multiply by  impulse  string  where  the  impasse  in the  continuous  sting  that definition  is  infinity. We  need  to  multiply  by  impasse. The  value  is  infinity. We  always  find  it  is  the  top. He  try  to  clarify  this. Now,  first  of  all,  we should  keep  this  very  firm  in  our  met. Given  any  continuous  signal or  continuous  function, if  we  want  to  convert  into a  discrete  function  or  digit  function, the  process  of  mathematic  expression is  extremely  simple. Given  a  compute  function  where X  and  Y  are  continuous  value. To  get  a  discrete  version, we  just  replace  the  contus  variable  X  Y by  a  times  theta  x  n  times  theta  Y. Just  replace  this  conte  value into  discrete  and  n. That's  what  we  did. What  is  the  discrete  version  of the  image?  Nothing  more  than  that. This  is  a  mathematic  expression  of  how  to  get a  discrete  function from  a  continuous  function. Just  replace  the  continous  ible by  Delta  x  or  n  delta  y. Well  and  n  is  integer, not  continuous,  is  one,  two,  345. Well  Delta  x,  obviously, it  is  the  interval  between  two  samples. From  this,  replace  x  and  y  by  this  data  x, we  can  also  clearly  see  that. What  is  the  sampling  process? The  sampling  process  is  very straightforward  from  a  continuous  curve. We  just  every  data  X,  we  take  a  point. Next  point  after  data x,  we  take  the  next  point. Then  after  data,  we  take  the  next  point. Every  data  x,  we  take  one  venue. Then  we  get  to  the  discrete  function. That's  all. This  show  that  from a  concious  function  to get  a  discrete  function, whatever  singular  it  is  of  mage  is, the  process  is  extremely  simple. Now,  although this  process  is  extremely  simple. But  if  we  want  to  study the  renation  between  FD  n  and  A  X, then  we  need  more  mathematic  tools. To  study  the  renation. You  may  say  relation  is  very  straightforward, this  FD  equals  to  FC.  That's  all. This  relation  between  FC  and  FD. Yes,  FD  equals  to  FC, but  FD  only  equals  to  FC for  x  equals  to  Data  x. For  x  not  equals  to  this  discrete  value, In  FD  is  undefined. We  never  define  the  value  between two  samples.  Between  two  point. Between  two  point,  the  value is  undefined  in  the  discrete  functions. But  in  the  contar  function, we  always  has  the  value. We  need  study,  what  is  the  ination  for  FD  and FC  for  value  x  not  equals  to  this  point. What  are  the  renation? Or  we  need  study  after  we convert  this  computer  function into  screte  function, they  have  the  same  information, or  we  ne  some  information. If  we  want  to  study  this  relation, we  need  some  complex  mathematics. Now,  what  is  this  complex  mathematics? This  is  a  sampling  theory. Now,  sampling  theory  come  from one  assumption  or  a  comion that  the  function  is  a Is  a  so  called  band  limited  functions. That  means  the  function,  the  form, the  frequency  component  is  zero for  the  frequency  outside  of  some  band. If  you  and  we  arche  some  value, the  fat  form  zero. That  means  the  energy  of the  single  order  image  only  concentrated in  some  frequent  sand outside  of  the  band,  zero. This  is  assumption. But  this  assumption  is  always  true  in the  practice  because  in the  practice  especially  for  the  image, even  we  see  that the  real  world  is  a  continuous. But  our  Is  it  is  discrete. Our  has  sensor  is  a  sensor. For  the  continuous  world, if  you  change  very  rapidly, our  eyes  cannot  feel  that.  Okay. All  image  can  be apprecimated  by  a  band  limited  sync. This  condition  all  this  assumption  is always  true  in  the  practice or  at  least  for  high  frequency  component, it  is  not  very  important or  contains  a  very  little  information. The  most  information  is a  constant  within  a  band. A  image  is  a  band  limited  with  the  band  with, is  two  times  of  the  largest  frequency. The  free  transform  is  non  zero. This  is  assumption. Okay.  Now,  given  an  image  or  given  a  single. If  the  frequency  competent  is ing  from  zero  to  some  maximum  frequency. If  the  frequency  not  th  that,  all  are  zero. Then  what  is  the  bandwidth? Some  textbook  define  the  bandwidth is  this  maximum  frequency. Some  textbook  define  the  bandwidth as  the  two  times  of this  maximum  frequency  because the  fa  transform  has  a  negative  frequency. I  suggest  you  take  this  approach. The  bandwith  definition  is the  two  times  of  this  not  just  the  frequency. This  is  because  even  if a  singular  the  frequency  range  is all  smaller  than  this  U  O  and  O. If  we  do  the  modulation  to move  this  singular  into  a  high  frequency, then  QA  become  the  non  z  range becomes  two  times  of  the  UO  and two  times  the  O  in  the  modulation. We  better  take  two  times  of this  highest  frequency  as  the  bandwidths. Now,  to  study  the  sampling  theory, we  need  to  define a  so  called  sampling  functions. Sampling  functions  in the  one  dimensional  singular. It  is  impulse  tr. Now,  for  two  dimensional  function because  we  have  two  variable. We  define  a  sample  function  impulse. Here  show  graphically  show what  is  the  impulse. First  of  all,  impulse function  in  the  continous  variable  x  and  y, the  definition  of  the  impasse function  is  infinity. The  value  here  is  infinite,  not  the  one. For  continuous  function, the  impasse  definition  of impasse  is  always  infinity. Here,  we  use  the  arrow, one  height  to  indicate  the  value, we  use  the  arrow  to  indicate in  fact  is  the  infinity. But  the  integration  is  one. This  is  for  Y  impulse. Now,  for  continuous  function, the  impasse  is  infinity. We  define  impasse  we  show  here. It  is  the  impasse  position of  Delta  x  and  Delta  y. And  n  is  integer. At  all  this  position, we  have  the  impasse. We  first  define  this  impasse  ra. Now,  one  sentence,  we  need in  my  mind  in  our  mind  is  in  passe, it  appears  to  be  it  has only  non  Z  value  at  this  sampleing  point. Because  sample  we  take  the  value of  the  continuous  function  at  at  x D.  It  appears  to be  has  only  no  Z  value at  this  sampleing  point. But  this  impasse  array x  y  is  a  continuous  function, not  discrete  function  by  this  definition. It  is  a  continuous  function. Because  we  want  to  establish a  continuous  function with  a  discrete  function. We  first  define  a  function. It  is  somehow  between  the  two. It  is  a  continuous  function, but  it  has  only  non  z  value  at this  discrete  point  to bridge  this  two  function. We  define  a  impasse  array  here. Now,  some  people  always  some  problem in  this  infinity. In  the  continuous  storm  means  that pass  deflation  is  always  infinity, but  never  be  scared  by  this  infinity. This  infinity  is  just  image we  have  such  functions. In  the  practice,  we  never  use this  function  because  in  the  practice the  singular  cannot  be  the  infinity  value. For  example,  in  the  filter, we  have  started  that. The  The  filter  output  is  always the  convolution  with the  input  single  and  impulse  response. But  the  impulse  response  is  not  the  impulse. It's  already  the  output  of the  filter  if  input  is  the  impulse, but  the  impulse  response is  already  the  final  value. Although  the  input  is  the  impulse. We  define  the  impulse  response. At  the  end,  we  only  use the  impulse  response  of the  system  or  a  filter. We  never  use  the  impulse. But  the  impulse  response  originate  from, we  first  define  the  impulse. Never  be  scared  by this  definition  of  the  impulse. It  is  the  infinity.  We  just  imagine  we have  such  of  the  single  impulse  e  y. Now,  given  this  impasse, we  know  what  its  fue  transform. The  fue  transform  is  also a  impulse.  Show  here. This  one  from  the  decoration of  the  fuel  transform, we  can  derive  that  impulse  tr, the  fue  transform  is  also  a  impasse. The  impasse,  the  fue  transform is  also  impasse  age. Well,  with  the  interval  of the  two  impasse  is  one  over  dit  x, where  the  interval  of the  impasse  in  the  spatial  domain  is  delta  x, then  in  another  fk  domain  is  one  over  data  x. Anyway,  we  can  have  the  fuller  transform  of this  impulse  ray  is also  a  impulse  array,  it's  fuller  transform. Now,  after  we  have  this  effect, we  first  suppose  given continuous  singular  Fc  X  Y. We  try  to  mtply  the  singular  by a  impulse  ray  to  get  a new  singular  FD  X  Y.  What  we  get. As  I  mentioned  that,  the  definition  of the  impasse  agree  is  infinity  at  the  impasse, but  never  meant,  we  just  imagine we  make  these  two multiply  together  what  we  get. From  previous  slides,  we see  this  is  the  diflation  of  the  impulse. If  this  multiplied  by  by  function, then  this  function  can  go inside  of  this  summation. This  is  the  propability  of the  multiplication  is  critical  here. So  this  function  can go  inside  of  this  summation. This  multiplication  Fxy  can go  inside  of  this  summation. So  it  converts  multiplication of  a  function  with  a  rig into  some  of  the  function multiplied  by  one  impasse. But  because  inside  of the  submission  is  only  one  impasse. Now,  if  a  function  multiplied  by  by  impasse, it's  the  same  as  this  function  at the  value  at  the  position  of  this  impasse. We  can  change  X  by  dt  X, change  y  by  dta  y. Why  we  can  change  this continuous  value  X  and  Y  two, this  x  delta  x. Because  F  x  y  multiplied  by  impasse, this  impasse  has  only  non  z  value at  this  position. We  only  need  this  c  value  at  this  position. If  x  and  y  not  equals  to  this  position, any  way  data  value  is  zero. Zero,  multi  anything  is  zero. We  can  understand  that  any function  multiply  impasse  is just  a  single  value  of  this  function  at the  position  of  this  function multiply  impasse. Be  impasse  is  zero, except  for  this  position. B.  It  is  pretty clear  we  have  this  expression,  right? Now,  after  we  have  this  expression, we  will  try  to  find  what  is the  fue  transform  of  this  FD  X  Y. Again,  FD  X  Y  is  not  a  discrete  function. The  X  and  Y  are still  continuous  because  here, the  X  and  Y  are  still  continuous. Although  the  value  of  FD  is no  on  the  position  Delta  x  and  Delta  y, but  it  is  a  continuous  function. This  is  a  continuous  function. Now,  next  one,  we  will  study, what  is  the  fue  transform  of  this  FD  X  Y? The  fue  transform  of FD  because  FD  is a  multiplication  of  this  tool. Then  the  fui  transform  will  become volution  of  the  fue  transform  of  this  tool. It  is  the  f  transform  of FC  convolve  with  the  fui  form of  the  impulse  array. We  know  that  fue  transform  of the  impasse  ray  is  also  a  impulse  ray. We  have  the  convolution  of the  fue  transform  of the  original  contra  function, convolve  a  convolution  with  the  impasse  ray. Now,  the  comvolution,  we  have the  property  same  as  multiplication. U  can  go  inside  of  this  summation  because the  f  transform  is  also  a  impasse impasse  the  sum  of many  impasse  at  a  different  position. The  comvolion,  then  U can  go  inside  of  this  summation. We  have  this  expression. This  is  pretty  clear. Now,  we  have  a  function  with  the  impasse. A  function  convolve  with the  impasse  is  this  function  self. The  result  is  same. F  C  convolve  with  Delta  is  just  F  c, but  we  have  the  shift  the  impasse. The  convolution  will  shift  this  funion. This  function  has  the  amount  of the  shift  as  this  impasse. Now,  we  can  understand  that. For  example,  a  function  convolve with  the  impulse  is this  function  because  we know  impulse  response. The  output  impulse  response is  input  is  the  impulse. Then  we  get  the  output is  the  impulse  response. The  convolution  satisfies the  shift  environment because  convolution  can  only  be applied  to  the  SI  system. It  is  a  shift  environment. The  shift  vn  that  means when  function  has  a  shift, the  convolution  result  has the  same  amount  of  the  shift. Here,  we  can  also  understand  that the  conion  result  is  this  one. Now,  of  course,  simplify  this  expression, we  change  one  over  delta  x  as  f  x, one  over  data  y  as  F  y x  because  data  x  is interval  is  a  spatial  unit. Inverse  is  some  kind  of  the  frequency. We  use  the  F  x  y  to indicate  one  over  Delta  x. Anyway,  we  have  this  expression. I  from  this  expression, we  can  also  say  that,  what  is  this  result? This  result  is  F  U. We  place  FU  at  many  positions. Then  sum  the  together. Here  we  can  say  if  the  FC  is  this  shape. Then  this  FU  FDA. Is  just  we  place this  FCUA  at  many  different  place, then  sm  them  together. Now,  if  FCUA  is  a  band  limited, it  is  non  zero  only  within  this  area. Then  if  we  place  this  into  a  ther  place, this  interval  is  larger  than  the  band  wa. Then  we  repeat  this at  many  different  position, they  will  have  no  overlap. Then  we  have  such  kind  of  shape.  This  is  FD. Now,  FUA  is  a  full  transform of  the  original  continuous  singular. F  DUA  is  a  full  transform  of the  original  continuous  singular multiplied  by  past  string. I  is  still  continuous. Then  this  is  its  full  transform. Now,  this  deviation  is  just  to  show  that we  can  use  F  DUA  to  recover  FCUA. Be  FDU  is  just  repeat of  this  FCUA  at  a  meaning  high  frequency. Now,  if  they  don't  have the  overlap,  given  FDU, we  use  a  no  ps  filter  to  remove all  other  component  on make  this  component  go  through  the  filter, then  we  can  get  FCA. This  is  pritic  here.  It  shows  that  give  FU. If  we  be  that  low  pass  filter, it  is  of  course  here, we  have  a  are  constant. Anyway,  it  is  such  of  the  low  pass  filter, we  only  pass  through  this  component  to the  output  and  remove all  other  component  because  it  is  zero. Then  we  can  get  what  is  the  FU. FCA  can  be  recovered  by F  DUA  multiplied  by  frequency  son, transform  of  the  impulse  response of  a  puse  filter, where  this  no  puss  filter is  just  one  or  zero. O  we  pass  through this  one  and  zero  will  remove  other  ones. This  is  in  fact  very  car. FUA  can  be  recovered  from  the  FDU. Now,  the  pass  filter  in the  spatial  domain  is  the  convolution, the  impulse  sponse  of  this  no  pass  fhilor. Then  we  use  the  convolution  formula  to  say the  FD  XY  convolve  with  no  pass  fh. Here,  no  pass  filter  convolve  with  FD  X  Y. What  is  the  FDX  y? It  is  just  FC  XY multiplied  by  impasse  string, then  becomes  to  this  expression. No  here  is  impasse. This  is  FDX  Y. Now,  convolve  with  the  ps  impulse  response of  the  pas  fatter. The  convolution  will  make  this  H  X  Y  go inside  of  this  summation after  this  y  because  this  is  constant, it  is  not  a  function  of  the  X  and  Y. So  we  have  this  expression. Now,  from  this  expression, H  x  y  convolved  with the  impasse  is  H  x  y  self. Now  we  shift  the  impasse, then  we  have  the  H  x  y  shift the  same  amount  because convolution  is  a  shift  invariant. We  shift  one  function, then  same  as  the  shift  the  convolution  rest, because  it  is  a  shift  vari. This  impulse  response  of  the  no  pass  filter convolved  with  the  shift  impulse  is just  a  shift  impulse  response. We  have  this  expression. Now,  we  start  from  the  impulse a  multiply  b  original  conculs  function. But  at  the  end,  the  impulse  disappear. What  we  have  is  just  the  impulse  response. Impulse  response  is  used to  specify  any  AI  system. Annear  filter  is  represented by  its  impulse  response. There's  no  impulse  anymore. We  have  no  infinity,  no  continuous  impulse. We  have  only  the  impulse  response  of the  filter  or  the  mask  of  the  filter  mask. Okay.  We  have  this  expression. Now,  from  this  expression,  we  can  see  that. We  can  recover the  original  continuous  sing  if  we know  this  blue  value because  this  is  just  a  no  pass  filter. For  whatever  sing,  whatever  image, we  just  use  the  same  no  pass  filter. To  get  a  original  continuous  image, we  only  need  this  blue  vue. N  this  blue  vue  go  to  a  low  pass  filter, we  can  get  a  continuous  function. Now,  this  blue  value  here  is  discrete. This  one  is  discrete. Although  FD  is  continuous, because  FD  is  this  blue  value multiplied  by  continuous  impulse. Now  at  the  end,  this  impulse all  impulse  rey  disappear. We  have  the  impulse  response. Impasse  response  is  just to  specify  a  low  passe  ter. Here,  we  only  need  this  discrete  value. This  wy,  the  discrete  image  is just  replace  x  by  delta  X  N  dt. We  denote  this  one  as  the  discrete  image. Discrete  image  can  be  used to  reconstruct  the  original  continuous  image. No  problem,  just  go  through  an  pass  filter. Here  not  that  go  through  a  no  pass  filter. This  is  not  the  completion. Just  use  it  to  wit, meaning  no  pass  filter. Because  this  is  a  discrete, then  pass  filter  is  a  continuous  filter. This  x  y  is  a  continuous  filter. This  H  x  y  is  a  continuous  filter. We  use  this  continuous  filter  to  field a  continuous  weighted  impasse. Now,  this  is  a  conclusion  from  here. We  see  the  relation between  the  continuous  function and  the  discrete  function  for all  x  and  y  value, not  just  for  X  equals  to  a  Delta  x. Although  we  have the  discrete  pix  image  between  two  pixes, the  value  of  the  function  is  undefined, but  we  can  recover the  complete  function  by go  through  this  formula. Here  H  H  is  just  no  path  filter. We  use  this  discrete  image  value to  weight  this  discrete  filter, the  sum  them  together. We  can  B  this  filter  is  a  continuous  filter. We  use  a  discrete  image  to weight  this  continuous  path  filter, then  we  can  gag  the  continuous  image. This  is  a  sampling  theory. We  can  see  the  relation  be  the continuous  and  the  discrete  for all  x  and  y  value  because here  is  already  a  continuous  function. But  of  course,  this  theory  is  assumption. Here,  we  cannot  have  the  overlap. This  different  copy  of the  f  transform  of the  cantus  image  has  no  overlap. That  this  interval  must be  larger  than  the  band  was. This  is  a  condition,  this  is  assumption. Under  this  assumption. This  is  why  we  have  the  sampling  s  rate. If  the  sampling  rate  is  not  the  cse  rate, Niclie  rate  is  two  times of  the  maximum  frequency. T  times  the  maximum  frequency  in my  opinion  is  a  band  width  of  the  sing. If  the  sampling  rate  or sampling  frequency  is  higher than  two  times  a  maximum  frequency or  higher  than  the  bandwidth, then  we  can  recover the  original  continuous  function from  the  discrete  function. This  is  a  sampling  theory. But  if  the  sampling  rate is  lower  than  the  bend with  Oer  than  two  times  of the  maximal  frequency  or lower  than  the  sampling  rate, what  bon,  then  here  it  will  overlapped. This  overlap,  will  the  so  called, that  means  the  recontracted continuous  image  we  are  distorted. We  are  different  from the  original  continuous  image. This  is  some  conclusion from  the  sampling  theory. Now,  from  the  conclusion  of  this  sum  theory, we  can  see  that  we  can treat  the  cont  function  or content  image  and  the  discrete  image or  digital  image  equivalent  they  are  same. If  the  image  is a  band  limited  within  some  bandwidths. We  can  treat  them  equivalent. For  continuous  one,  we  use  the  integration. For  discrete  one,  we  use  the  sum. That's  one.  The  effects are  exactly  same.  There's  no  difference. Okay,  now,  after  break, we  will  study  our  topic  three. Okay,  t  you  minutes  break,  Mm. Okay,  so  I  think  we  can  resume  our  class. So  now  we  will  study our  third  topic  image  enhancement. Now  for  the  image  enhancement, we  are  first  to  study the  so  called  point  processing. This  is  a  specific  for  image  processing. The  first  one,  we  call  it a  simple  point  processing  because  in  fact, the  second  top  hetogm  equalizing is  also  a  point  processing. But  hestogram  equalizing  is  a  net bit  complicated  to  understand  it, and  also  it  is  much more  important than  a  simple  point  processing. I  separate  separate  them into  two  different  topics. Now,  the  next  tool  is  just  we  extend  or  apply our  LSI  system  to the  particular  image  to design  the  no  path  filter and  high  pass  filter. We  can  very  quickly  go  through  it and  the  next  topic  we  will study  the  rank  filter such  as  a  meting  filter  and  related. This  topic,  I  believe  we  cannot  do  tonight, we  will  do  next  week. Now  for  the  image  enhancement, we  first  study  the  so called  point  processing. The  point  processing  is  also  called memory  ense  because  the  system don't  need  memory. Because  the  output  image  peak  value only  depends  on  one  input  pea  grid  value. Even  only  depends  on  the  grid  value  itself. It  is  independent  to  the  position. For  all  point  processing, we  express  it  as  g  equals  to  t  A. Suppose  the  input  image  is  f  x  y. Output  image  is  a  G  x  y, but  we  can  remove  x  and  y because  for  given  F  value, we  will  get  the  g  value  for  whatever  of the  value  of  the  x and  y,  for  whatever  position. Because  the  g  v  output  value only  depends  on  the  input  g  value. Nothing  to  do  with  the  position  x  and  y. This  is  a  pot  processing. Now,  a  simple  points example  such  as  the  power  transform. So  the  g,  the  output  image  grid  value equals  to  input g  value  A  to  the  power  of  the  gama multiplied  by  some  constant  normalization. This  is  a  power  function. We  call  it  the  power  transform or  in  some  application, we  call  it  the  gamma  correction. Gama  coring  is  very  famous  in the  traditional  image  processing  tools  such as  some  sort  you use  this  name  gamma  correction. Anyway,  it  is  some  kind of  the  power  transform. Now,  another  transform  is called  no  rgorim  transform because  the  output  is a  logarithm  function  of  the  input  A. We  can  also  define a  simple  piece  wise  linear  transform. This  is  the  equation  to indicate  given  f  value, how  to  compute  the  g. It  is  a  linear  function, but  it  is  a  piece  wise. Altogether,  it  is  a  non  linear  function. We  here  we  plot this  piece  wise  linear  function. Because  the  scope  of  this  nine  are different  at  a  different  range of  the  input  value. It's  called  a  piece  wise  linear  transform. Now,  after  we  started this  simple  point  processing, then  we  will  go  to a  very  powerful  processing is  called  tram  equalization. Now,  first  of  all, we  study  the  power  transform. What  is  the  power  transform? The  mathematic  formula  is  very  simple, G  equals  to  c  A  to  the  power  of  the  gram. F  is  the  g  venue  of the  input  image  or brightness  of  the  input  image, where  g  is  the  brightness of  the  output  image, where  the  renation  is  a  power  function. We  understand  shape  of  this  power  function, for  example,  if  gama  is  two, so  basically  g  is  e  square. Then  the  curve  is  somehow  like  this  one. This  curve  of  square  functions. Okay.  For  all  Gama  ninth, it  is  a  curve  is  below  this  street  nine, the  street  nine  is  gama  equals  to  one, then  it  is  just  a  lima  function. For  gama  nine  than  one, then  it  is  a  curve  below  this  street  nine, for  gama  more  than  one, it  is  curve  above  this  street  nine. Now,  what  is  the  effect  of this  equation  gamma  correction or  the  power  transform? We  just  take  one  example. For  example,  given  the input  image  is  shown  here. This  image  is  a  problem so  because  it  is  a  bright  image. It  appears  to  be,  we  take this  image  is  over  expose. All  pictures  has  a  relative  ng  venue. We  don't  have  that  dark  area. Most  area  is  very  bright. But  the  contrast  is  now. The  difference  between  different  structure, the  brightness,  the  difference  is  small. Because  of  that,  somehow our  human  eyes  cannot differentiate  the  small  difference. It  is  uncoar. Now,  after  we  apply  this  gamma, transform,  use  the  power, not  the  one  from  this  input  image, we  map  A  to  the  G, we  can  get  such  kind  of  the  image. Now,  this  output  image, if  you  compare  to  this  one, it  is  much  more  car. How  this  gamma  correction, or  this  power  transform, can  make  the  contrast  higher  contrast, so  that  the  difference  between different  structure  is  narger. Our  human  will  see  it  is  a  is  much  more  ear. This  is  a  contrast  enhancement. Now,  to  do  the  contrast  enhancement, we  need  to  do  some  of the  non  linear  transform. Linear  transform  does  not  make  any  sense. Now,  because  if  we  just  give  you  an  example, if  we  want  to  enhance the  contrast,  given  the  image, we  just  multiply  every  pixel  of  100  times, then  the  original  difference of  the  one  becomes  100. Then  all  contrasts  are  enhanced. This  is  not  a  way  to do  the  contrast  enhancement  because our  human  eyes  has only  certain  range  of  the  sensitivity. We  can  only  feel the  difference  within  some  range. This  is  why  in the  power  transform  for  example, after  we  do  the  F  to  the  power  of  the  gama, we  need  much  constant  C  to  make the  range  of  the  value F  and  G  C.  For  example, the  input  here  show the  input  value  from  zero  to  A. Then  the  output  is  also  from  zero  to  A. We  don't  change  the  total  range, but  we  need  to  enhance  the  contrast. How  to  do  that?  We  need  a  nonmeal  processing. We  can  stretch  some  range  of  the  brightness. At  a  price,  we  can suprise  the  contrast  of  some  other  range. Now,  this  is  a  possible  by  uses  near function  to  the  part  of  the  gama. Example  here  the  curve. I  already  mentioned  that  to  understand  that, if  this  gama  is  two, then  we  know  what  is  the  y  e  to  x  squared. It  is  such  of  the  curve. Now,  what  is  the  meaning  of  this  curve? From  this  curve  for  example, we  take  some  extreme  case for  Gama  equals  to  ten. This  curve  means  if the  input  grid  value is  from  zero  to  this  one, the  output  becomes  to  this  small  range. The  contrast  of  the  input  grid  value in  this  range  will  be suppressed  into  a  very  small. But  if  the  input  image  has bright  range  from  this  value  to  this  value. Then  the  output  is  from this  point  to  this  point. The  output  has  large  range. This  is  a  different.  It  is  a  non  linear. This  power  transform  for  Gama  than, we  increase  the  contrast  in this  higher  value  range  at  a  price, we  decrease  the  contrast  for  the  v  g  value. At  the  end,  we  keep  the  whole  range  safe, no  change  b  multiplied  by  a  constant  sa. Then  the  problem  of  this  input  image  is the  most  pixel  has value  because  it's  a  bright  image. That  means  we  have  very  small  pix. There's  no  pixel  has  small  value. Now,  if  we  apply  this  curve, apply  this  gamma,  transform  with gama  one,  for  example  five. Then  the  value  of  the  input  value will  be  suppressed  for  the  value, the  contrast  will  be  enhanced. From  here,  we  can  see  the  dark  part, the  small  difference  becomes to  a  large  difference. The  contrast  of  the  range of  the  dark  value  will  be  enhanced. No.  The  bright, the  arg  value  range  will  be  enhanced. The  difference  will  be  enhanced. At  a  price,  the  dark  value  may  be  separased. But  this  will  not  make  the  problem  because the  most  picture  has  bright  value. Bright  value  means  the  input has  larger  value. Most  picture  in  the  larger  value. Most  pure  the  difference are  enhanced  becomes  so, so  the  contrast  enhanced. At  a  price,  the  dark  value  are  sped, but  in  this  input  image, we  don't  have  the  very  dark  value. This  will  solve  the  problem. We  enhance  the  contrast  of the  bright  value  and suprise  the  contrast  of  the  dark  value. This  is  the  meaning  of  this  curve. You  see  from  this  curve. For  them,  this  small  range, the  output  comes  to  a  large  range. At  a  price  a  large  range of  the  different  value  in  the  input, the  output  is  a  very  small  range. We  can  enhance  the  bright  part  of  the  image. If  most  most  part of  the  chest  part of  the  image  is  a  bright  value, then  large  part  will be  enhanced  the  contrast. This  is  a  show  for  gama,  not  one. You  have  such  kind  of  the  effect. Now,  similarly,  if  the  gamma is  as  small  as  the  one, then  the  dark  value  here  input, the  dark  value,  the  output becomes  to  a  higher  contrast because  it  strange  a  small  range into  a  large  range  here. At  a  price  for  higher  are  range  here, following  the  curve,  the vertical  range  is  small. We  know  in  the  power transform  the  gama  smaller  than  one, the  shape  of  this  curve  are similar  to  the  no  garism  transform. Ngithm  function,  we  know what  is  the  noc  function. The  shape  of  the  loc  function, they  are  very  similar. For  the  g  transform, why  we  have  such  effects, we  can  tend  that  based  on the  gama  transform  for  gama  smaller  than  one. It  will  enhance  the  contrast  for the  dark  range  because  small  change  here, in  the  input,  the  output becomes  large  change. Well,  the  large  change  in  the  bright  one, the  output  becomes  too  small  here, for  the  large  range. If  we  apply  this to  solve  the  problem  of  this  dark  image. This  dark  area, the  different  pic  that  has  difference, but  it  is  small,  so our  human  eye  cannot  notice  that. But  after  contrast  enhancement, it  becomes  much  clearer  because the  contrast  is  enhanced. But  this  is  at  a  price. This  is  a  bright  we will  decrease  the  contrast. But  if  the  whole  image  has the  most  part  is  very  dark  by  doing  so, most  part  is  enhanced  the  contrast, where  reduce  the  contrast is  just  a  very  small  part. So  overall,  the  whole  image becomes  too  much  car  that  input. This  is  a  no  go  transform  or the  gama  transform  for gama  is  smaller  than  one. Now,  we  can  also understand  it  based  on  the  stro  gb. Now,  given  this  dark  image, then  we  may  have  such  kind  of  the  st  web. Why  we  have  this  kind  of  the  sub? Because  for  the  dark  area, we  have  most  pixel  in  dark. That  means  for  the  i  vue  small, we  have  many  pixels. The  vertical  vue  is  number  of  the  pixel. The  hot  value  is  gi  value. For  small  g  value, we  have  most  pixels. We  have  many  nines concentrated  in  the  small  value. Now,  for  the  bright  pixels, we  have  a  small  number  of  the  bright  pixels. For  arg  gravenue,  we have  only  small  number  of  the  pixels. This  is  the  shape  of  the  wine. Now,  after  this  lo  grim  transform, all  the  power  transform  with  gama  small  wine, we  will  string  this  dense  distribution into  a  wide  distribution. I  a  price  we  suprise  this  one  into more  more  dese  this  nes  compared  to  here. But  we  strange this  dense  distribution into  sparse  distribution. This  sparse  means  the  different  pixel  here. We  have  some  number  of  pix. The  different  value  has larger  difference  compared  to  here. So  before  the  point  processing and  after  the  point  processing, the  whole  range  of  the  gri  venue  are  sm. We  keep  seeing.  If  we want  to  enhance  the  contrast  of  some  part, we  must  suppress  the  contrast of  some  other  parts. This  part,  the  contrast  are  suppressed. We  can  enhance  the  contrast of  this  part,  the  dark  part. We  can  get  this  output  image  by no  grim  transform  or power  transform  with  scam  smaller  than  one. Now,  here  we  can  see  the  power  transform or  gamma  correction. By  gama  nare  than  one, we  can  enhance  the  contrast of  the  bright  part. At  the  price  we  suppress  the  dark  part. For  gamma  correction  with gamma  small  than  one, we  can  enhance  the  dark  part at  the  price  sups  the  bright  part. This  is  also  a  signal  to  the  g  transform. Now,  if  we  want  to  enhance  the  contrast  in some  middle  part  and spars  a  very  dark  and  very  bright  wide, then  we  can  design  or transform  in  this  kind  of  shape. This  is  a  piece  wise  linear  transform. This  is  just  show  piece  region with  different  snope  of  this  nine. We  can  enhance  this  so called  no  contrast  image. It  is  not  very  bright, also  not  very  dark, but  the  contrast  is  now  because the  difference  of  different  g  value  is  small. We  want  to  amplify  it, enhance  the  contrast, but  keep  the  whole  range  no  change. We  design  this  mapping  from input  value  A  to output  value  g  by  align  this  nine. This  nine  is  pretty  car,  for  example, for  small  value  for dark  part  and  a  very  bright  part, the  snope  is  smaller  than. A  large  range  of the  input  output  become too  small.  This  is  pretty  car. Here  in  this  range  is  also a  large  range  in  the  input  hostal. The  output  vertically become  too  small  because the  nine  snope  is  smaller than.  Smaller  than  one. Now,  for  this  part,  we design  this  nine  is  ng  than  one. A  small  range  hoztal  in  the  input, vertically  output  comes  to  nde. This  range  of  the  input  gre  value is  enhanced  in  the  output. This,  given  such  a  no  contrast  image, after  the  piece  wise  linear  transform, we  can  get  this  image because  the  contrast  is  enhanced. Now,  this  piece  wise  linear  transform, if  you  go  to  the  sting  case, for  example,  we  design our  snope  of  this  nine  is  infinity. It  is  a  vertical  line. Well,  both  these  two  are  two  host  nine. Then  this  piece  of nine  becomes  to  a  state  function. Holst  nine,  suddenly  vertical  line come  to  here,  then  hot  nine. This  extreme  case. Now,  if  we  apply  this  one, then  the  output  vertically has  only  two  value, either  zero  or  the  maximum  value. Then  we  can  get  a  binary  image. Of  course,  the  binary  image, the  contrast  is  highest  because the  pixel  value  either  is a  minimum  or  the  maximum. We  have  only  this  two  value. The  contrast  is  highest. To  understand  that,  if  we  design  that, the  middle  nine  is  a  vertical  ne, this  29  is  a  nine. Then  we  will  get  the  binary  image. Now  from  here,  we  can say  the  power  transform, comma  correction  or  no  gym  transform, all  this  piece  wise  mean  transform  is designed  to  enhance  the  contrast of  either  bright  part, dark  part,  or  middle  range. To  design  such  kind  of the  transform  to  apply  to  the  input  image, so  we  can  get  Mar  output  the  image. But  if  we  don't know  what  is  the  problem in  the  imputed  image, how  to  chose  what  transform  we  should  use. Then  to  adaptively  to  design  or transform  to  fret  the  problem of  the  input  image, we  have  the  histogram  equalization. We  can  understand  this  histogram  equalization is  some  of  the  adaptively  to  string some  part  of  the  image  if  we  met  and  we suppress  some  range  of the  input  equi  value if  we  don't  meet  enhances  it. At  this  transform  will adapt  you  to  the  input  image, adapt  you  to  the  problem  of  the  input  image. Now,  basically  what  is the  histo  equalization. Equization  means  equal. The  scram  equalization  is  to  we transform  the  input  image into  the  output  image. Try  to  make  the  output  image, the  scram  is  a  whole  to  the  line. The  contrast  is  the  maximum  because  all  pix are  uniformly  distributed  from minimum  value  to  the  maximum  value. This  is  why  we  call  the  scram  equalization. Now,  what  is  how  to  achieve  this  equation? The  mathematic  meso or  mathematic  expression  of this  se  equation  is  pretty  simple,  in  fact. Basically,  it  is  also a  point  process  given  input  gvue  A. Go  trans  transform  T, we  get  output  gvue  G, and  this  transform  is shown  in  this  blue  n  one. What  is  the  meaning  of  this  expression? First  of  all,  PF  is  the  gram  of  the input  image  A.  PF  is  a  s  qua. Now  in  the  first  week,  or  last  week, we  really  introduce  what  is  the  st  qui. It's  pretty  clear.  It  is just  a  number  of  the  pixels at  a  different  gvalue.  We  compute  it. Then  we  have  the  seque,  of  course, normalized  by  the  total  number  of  the  pixels. This  definition  is  extremely simple.  This  is  a  se  qui. Now,  how  to  utilize  this  hes  qui to  transform  the  input  image into  the  output  image. Input  image  g  value. Of  course,  given  the  input  image, we  need  first  compute  Hb, we  already  have  the  Hm. We  just  count  for different  grid  value,  how  many  pixes? What's  the  number  of  the  pixes? After  then  we  can  compute  what  is  the  hem of  the  input  image  p.  Now, after  that,  how  to  transform the  input  g  value  into the  output  image  g  value. Given  input  grid  value. We  sum  the  Hogm  of the  input  image  from  zero  to  A. This  is  a  sum  of  the  st  gram  value. Sum  of  the  P  value, not  the  f  value. It  is  a  stem  value, is  a  number  of  the  pixel normalized  number  of  the  pixel, but  with  sum  this  sg  value  for A  from  zero  up  to this  particular  input  pixel  value  F. Then  we  take  this  sum  as  the  output  vue. We  change  of  the  input  pixel to  the  C  is  the  output  pixel  value. That's  all.  This  is a  process  of  the  Ham  equidation. Now  from  here,  we  can see  it  is  not  difficult. Really,  if  you  understand, it  is  not  difficult. Given  any  input  image, how  to  compute  the  C  with  sum  of the  input  for  this from  zero  up  to  this  venue. Then  this  submission  is the  output  grid  value.  That's  all. This  one  is  just  to  explain  what  is  the  PA. It's  a  scram  of  the  input  image. It's  a  number  of  the  pixel  at different  gri  value  normalized by  the  total  number  of  pix,  that's  all. This  is  a  gram  equalization. Now,  textbook  image  processing  textbook to  introduce  the  skin  equization, always  given  two  formulas. This  blue  n  one  and  this  red  wine. But  in  my  opinion, this  red  wine  is  nothing to  do  with  the  sum  equalization. It  is  just  a  simple  normalization. Now,  this  blue  we  will  make the  sgom  equiation  to  get  the  output  image  C, the  value  of  the  C  is  only  from  z  to  one. It's  normalized  from  z  to one  because  this  square, the  summation  of  the  a  square up  to  the  maximum  value  of the  input  image  is on  sum  qu  value  is  the  one. This  C  value  is  just  from  z  to  one. The  second,  this  black  color  is  just  to map  this  c  value  0-12  from  z  to  A. A  is  you  can  define  what is  the  different  quantation. And  then  make  it  integer. But  this  is  nothing  to  do  with  quire. Ending  image  processing after  image  processing, you  can  always  apply  this  one  to normalize  the  pixel  value from  the  minimum  value  zero  to the  maximum  value  of the  air  by  linear  mapping. The  ending  image  picks  the  value. After  any  processing,  we  can  always minus  the  minimum  value  of  this  image. Because  here  particularly  this  c  one. Then  mind  divide  by one  minus  this  minimum  value, because  the  mix  value  of  c  is  y. The  flexing  becomes  the  value  from  z  to  one. Then  multiply  by  is  from  z  to, then  round  it  becomes  to  integer. This  is  nothing  to  do  with  the  t  g. It's  just  a  simple  normalization. It  can  be  applied  in  any  processing. After  processing,  we  want  to normalize  it  into  a  largest  range  and then  to  quantize  it into  the  integer.  That's  all. It's  nothing  to  do  with  the g.  Nothing  to  do  with  the  scum  equization. Now,  I  already  emphasize this  in  my  past  lectures. But  in  the  final  exam, if  somehow  the  question  related  to the  squa  equation,  some  students, not  only  a  few, just  memorize  this  formula. Then  apply  this  formula, totally  equal  this  one. Or  maybe  not  understand this  one,  don't  know  this  one. How  to  do  this  one  is  just  use the  second  equation  to do  the  st  que  equization. This  will  receive  zero  mark. Because  the  second  nine  is  nothing to  do  with  the  st  que  equization. The  real  st  que  equization is  come  from  this  blue  or  one. Now,  although  this  sce  equation  method  make, it  is  not  difficult. This  formula  is  pretty  simple, but  why  it  cause  the  trouble  to  many  people? Because  here  we  need some  kind  of  the  transform. Given  input  image  f, we  need  first  compute  its  s.  Then such  from  z  to  this  sc  value  of the  F.  Then  this  steve  sum  value becomes  to  the  qui  value  of  the  output  image. Then  the  histogram  of this  output  image  will  be  almost  equal. It  is  a  equized  rest  gram in  the  output  image. Try  to  understand  this  one and  say  how  this  utilization, although  the  expression  is  very  simple, but  many  people  at  the  end  confuse. Because  here  we  need  first  from the  given  input  image g  value  A  to  compute  the  stem. Then  take  this  st  gum  as  the  output  g  vue, not  the  st  value  of  the  output  image. This  is  output  g  value. Now,  g  equation,  as  I  mentioned  that  it will  adapt  to  the  problem  of  the  input  image. I  will  make  whatever  hem  of  the  input  image becomes  to  the  output  image  histogram is  constant, almost  constant  for  digital  image, but  not  strictly  constant. But  for  continuous  image, we  can  theoretically  it, we  will  get  a  constant  uniform distributed  histogram  in  the  output. Here  we  will  prove  it in  terms  of  the  continuous  image. Now,  for  continuous  image, we  try  to  find  a  mapping  a  transform  to transform  the  input  f  value into  the  output  g  value. Now,  this  transform  is  a  function. G  is  a  function  of  the  f.  If  this  function is  single  valued  and  mootic  incase  function, then  its  inverse  function  is  also single  value  and  moot  increase  function. Now,  this  is  the  pratica. Now  if  the  function  satisfy  these  conditions, then  from  the  probability  theory, we  know  that  the  PDF  of  the  F  multiplied by  DF  PG  is  a  PDF  of  the G.  This  comes  from  the  probability  theory. Now  we  can  use  this  theory  because the  qui  has exactly  the  same  probability  of  the  PDF. Input  image.  We  can  compute  it  Hg. Although  it  conceptually,  it  is  not  the  PDF, but  we  can  treat  it  as  a  PDF. We  can  see  this  heg  is the  estimate  of  the  PDF. It  is  satisfy  all  propilty  of  the  PDF. For  continuous,  continuous  image  is  a  PDF. Now,  if  this  he  is  a  PDF, then  from  the  probil  theory, we  have  this  formula  here. This  formula  is  also  very  straightforward. Now,  because  g  is  a  function  of  the F.  That  means  if we  take  this  f  and  g  are  random  variable, so  that  we  have  the  PDF, PF  and  P  G.  If  it  is  a  random  variable, we  have  the  PDF, this  two  random  variable, where  one  random  variable  G  is a  function  of  the  F.  That  means  given  the  f, we  can  compute  what  is  the  g. Given  a  distribution  of  the  F, then  we  can  know  what  is distribution  of  the  G  because  g  is specified  by  the  F. In  the  probability  distribution, it's  pretty  easy  to  understand that  given  a  PDF  function, if  the  PDF  multiplied by  an  interval  of  the  F, then  the  PF  multiplied  by  DF. It  is  a  probability  of the  random  variable  fall  in  this  interval  DF. Of  course,  DF  here, over  DG  is  a  differentiation, but  the  meaning  of  the  DF  and the  DG  is  a  small  interval  of  the  F,  right? The  PDF  is  a  density  of  the  probability. A  density  multi  interval  is  the  probability. This  is  pretty  clear  from the  concept  of  the  probability. This  probability  must  be  equals  to the  probab  of the  random  variable  G.  The  probab  of the  random  variable  G  fall  in the  corresponding corresponding  interval  come  from the  f.  Pf  times dF  should  be  equals  to  Pg  times  d  g. Because  because  G  come  from  the  f. So  the  probability  of the  f  within  some  interval. Then  this  interval  based  on  this  interval, we  can  compute  what  is the  interval  of  the  G.  Then the  probie  of  the  f  and the  G  should  be  in  this  two  interval. The  probability  be  B the  random  variable  is  a  function  of  the  f, so  concept  is  a  critical. Anyway,  pf  times  df  equals  to  Pg  times  dg. That  we  have  this  formula. Now,  then  next  one, we  design  our  transform  function. G  is  a  function  of  the  F.  This  function is  a  integration  of  the  PDF  of  the  F. Integration  of  the  PDF  of  the  F  up  to  F, then  it  is  a  G.  If  we  design this  functions  because  G is  a  integration  of  the  PF, the  differentiation  of  the  G over  f  will  be  PF. PF  integrated  over  A  is  g. Then  this  g  differentiation  over  f  is  a  PF. This  is  corresponding  of the  differentiation  and  integration. This  is  pretty  car. Now,  then  from  here, we  know  what  is  the  PG, PG  here  is  a  PF  multiplied  df  over  dg. We  df  over  dg  from  here  is  over  pf. Is  over  pf. At  the  end  it's  a  constant  one. We  prove  that  the  output  image  will  have the  uniform  distributed  PDF for  it  PDF  of  the  input  image. If  our  output  image  is  computed  by input  image  integration  of the  PDF  of  the  input  image, or  the  integration  of  the  st  g  of  the  input. Then  the  output  image  g  has the  uniform  distributed  Hestog. This  prove,  in  fact,  is  not  difficult. Anyway,  here,  to  create a  uniform  distributed  histogram, we  need  to  use  the  function  transform  F into  g  by  integration of  of  the  of  the  input  image. Well,  for  discrete  image, we  use  the  summation  is just  a  discrete  version  of  the  integration. Because  for  discrete  image, we  don't  have  the  PDF, we  have  the  PF, that  distribution  function  is  a  discrete. We  just  use  the  summation to  replace  the  integration. Here,  we  prove  that  for  continuous  image, this  integration  of the  PDF  gate  output  image has  uniform  distributed. For  digital  image  with sum  the  quam  of  the  input  image, gate  the  value  as  the  output  value, then  the  output  image has  the  uniform  distributed. H  qua.  Okay.  Now,  although  continuous  case, we  can  strictly  prove  it. But  for  discrete  case, the  gram  will  not be  strictly  strictly  constant. It  cannot  be  constant. It  it  close  try  to  close  to  a  constant. Y  discrete  one,  we cannot  achieve  ski  constant. Y.  We  can  use  one  to  understand  that. Because  for  discrete  image, we  can  have  some  g  value, we  have  the  number  of the  number  of  the  pixels. Whatever  transform  you  use, this  height  cannot  change. Sam  value  after  any  transform will  get  the  g  value. In  the  input  image  cm, we  have  the  PD. The  scm  has  some  large  value, some  small  value. This  ge  value  and small  value  after  any  transform, will  also  keep  same  ge  and  same  small. Can  never  change  it. Otherwise,  that  means  gre  value  in  the  pix after  the  transform  it will  transform  to  different  g  value. This  is  impossible,  right? But  for  discrete  image, it  tried  too  close  to  the  uniform. Distribution.  Now  here  we will  show  an  example  to further  understanding  this  how this  cystogram  equalization  works. Now,  gram  equalization is  just  this  expression. Given  any  e  value, we  compute  the  sum  of the  cystogram  of  the  input  image. Then  this  value  becomes to  g  value  of  the  output  image. This  is  pretty  clear  then  from  this  example, how  can  this  expression  can achieve  almost  uniform  distributes qu  in  the  output  image. He  give  you  an  example. If  input  image  is  a  dark  image. That  means  all  pixes, the  Qi  value  is  concentrate  in  a  small  vue. For  the  small  value, we  have  large  number  of  the  pixels. The  vertical  value  is  number  of the  pixel.  This  is  the  squad. Obviously,  for  dark  image, we  have  such  kind  of  the  seque. Now,  if  we  apply the  squa  equation  to this  dark  image,  what  happened? For  a  very  small  value  quivue  for example  this  value  at  this  point. Because  in  the  the  value  is  the  quivue. Vertical  value  is  none  of  the  pixel. For  very  dark  value,  for  example,  this  one, because  there's  no  pixels  in  this  range, the  summation  is  almost  zero. This  input  value,  we transform  all  mapping  to output  is  also  very  small. Now,  for  input  value, grid  value  also  small, but  at  this  position. This  grid  value  in  the  input  image. Although  this  point,  the  grid  value  is  small, but  we  have  a  large  number of  pixes  within  this  range. Now,  what  equalization?  What  is  the  output? Suppose  here  we  already  50% of  the  pixein  this  range. Then  this  point,  we  are  mapping  two the  green  veer  of the  output  is  half  of  the  maximum  range. Because  the  highest  value  is  one. After  ification,  C,  maximum  an  venue  is  one. This  one,  we  are  mapping  to  0.5. Y  is  0.5,  because  we  have 15%  of  pixels  in  this  range,  right? Now,  then  what  is  the input  pixel  at  the  here  is also  no  value  because the  whole  range  is  here. Although  this  value  is  also  not large  in  the  input  brightenes, but  all  pixels  is  smaller  than  this  value. Then  the  summation  of the  squad  becomes  to  one. This  input  pixel  value is  mapped  to  the  maximum  value  of  the  one. Now,  if  suppose  we  have a  few  123  or  a  few  pixes has  value  in  the  input  image, very  bright  value,  but only  a  few  pixes  at  this  range. Then  what  is  mapping  to  the  output? Because  this  summation  of the  vertical  value  from  the  to here  is  the  same  from  to  here. This  one  we  mapping  to  this  one. Even  this  vue  this  vue  mapping to  the  same  value  here, we  have  no  pixes. Now,  from  here  we  can  see the  Hs  equation  will  make the  range  of  the  input  grid  value  if all  pixels  are  concentrate  on  this  range, then  this  range  will  greatly  amplified. Well,  for  pixel  range, for  grid  value  range, there's  no  pix,  or very  small  number  of  the  pixels. Then  this  range  suppressed  into  a  very  small. This  is  pretty  clear because  the  output  g  value is  sum  of  the  est  vue. His  value  is  number  of  the  pixels. This  is  pretty  clear. Why  this  simple  expression can  achieve  this  kind  of  the. That  the  whole  pix the  input  is  range from  this  point  to  this  point. Then  this  two  vue we  are  strange  into  a  whole  range, almost  the  whole  range. Now,  signally  for  this  image. For  this  image,  for  example, all  this  input  value, we  are  mapping  to almost  the  same  value  because there's  almost  no  pix. The  vertical  venue  in the  square  here  is  almost  zero. So  you  will  separate  this. But  this  from  this  point  to  this  point  in the  output  comes  from smallest  vue  to  are  vue. B  from  this  vee  to this  green  vue  each already  contain  all  pixels. Here,  the  summation  will  produce  from smallest  value  zero  to  the  largest  value  one. Here  there's  no  pixels  in this  range  value  range. All  this  part  we  are  mapping to  the  same  the  highest  value. This  show  how  it  works  visually. Now,  of  course,  Ham usually  is  some  kind  of  that  nine. Now,  if  in  the  test  or  in  some  exam, we  need  to  test  your  Ht  equation in  the  quize  we  can  only just  to  give  a  few  nines because  otherwise the  complication  is  very  complicated. So  we  may  suppose  the  image has  very  simple,  a  few  nines. Then  a  few  nines. Mathematically,  if  I  don't want  to  prote  this  one  in  the  quizzin, then  mathematically,  I  can  just use  impulse  function  to indicate  a  pase  to  one. Because  one  impulse  function  indicate  one, one  impulse  here  indicate  one. Then  some  of  these  three impulse  will  indicate three  nines  with  different  location  B  one, B  two,  B  three,  and  different height  A  1a2a3.  All  right. Here,  I  mentioned  that because  in  the  past  year, not  just  a  few some  students  find  this  question, don't  know  what  is  the  impulse. What's  the  meaning  of  this  impulse? Then  of  course  you  face  the  problem. If  the  question  is  given, as  is  described  by  these  functions. You  don't  know  what  is  it. Then  of  course  you  will  have  the  problem. Now,  the  further  examples of  this  he  equation. Given  this  sock  image  bright  image after  hes  quam  equation, we  can  get  a  very  car  image. Given  no  contrast  image, also  HQ  equation  can enhance  it  into  car  image. If  the  input  image  already  this  que  equation, will  have  no,  almost  no  change. This  is  why  I  call  the  hecho  equation  is some  of  the  adaptive  to  the  input. Right?  Okay.  Now,  this  image is  also  always  impressive  or  attractive, is  to  color  image  before quam  equalization  and  after  Hc  equalization. And  also  show  the  sum  of the  input  image  and the  scum  of  the  output  image. Of  course,  it's  not  strictly  a constant  but  it  try  to distribute  this  ss  distributed  scram into  a  brighten  distributed  hes. But  this  hec  I  believe  is  not  the real  hes  computed  by  this  two  image, it  just  indicates  to  do some  indication  because  as  I  mentioned  that, Hs  gum  cannot  change  the  height  of  each  nine, can  only  change  the  position  of  the  nine. If  you  understand  the  hes gumion,  you  shouldn't  know. The  height  of  the  nine  means how  many  pixels  has  this  qu  value. If  we  have  50  has  the  same  g  value, then  all  these  50 pies  after  mapping  to  the  output, they  must  be  also  same  value. Cannot  be  the  same  value  of  the  pixel. After  you  can  become  different  qu  value. It's  impossible. This  figure  should  be  this  curve, but  internally  redistributed  it. Some  range  were  comprised, some  range  are  stretched, but  this  happened  in  the  ho  axis. Vertical  axis  will  never happen.  We  never  changed. But  holy,  we  can  redistribute, redistribute  hotteral, at  the  different  positions. If  you  understand  the  process of  the  st  equization. So  called  no  cost  one  equation. This  is  very  specific to  some  image  processing. I  think  I  can  skip  it. It  is  not  a  mainstream  one. I  will  leave  this  no  path high  pass  fatter  to  next  week. That's  for  today.
