Next  week,  we  introduced our  optimal  class  fire  that  will minimize  the  O  rate. It  is  also  called  BS  decision  rule. Based  on  the  assumption  of the  Gain  class  conditional  PDF, we  figure  out  the  discretan  function. So  to  do  the  classification  or  prediction is  just  to  evaluate  the  discrepant  function. The  purpose  to  introduce a  discriminant  function  is  just to  simplify  our  computation. It  is  not  necessary. We  must  compute  the  apo  probability  because the  value  of  the  postal  probability  is  used to  compile  which  class  has  highest  value. We  can  simplify  this  computation of  the  aposal  probability, so  we  define  a  discrepant  function  to  achieve the  optimal  classification and  the  gausin  assumption. So  if  under  the  cause  assumption, we  have  the  analytic  formula of  the  dscminan  function. So  we  know  how  to  compute the  optimal  decisions. Then  in  a  special  case, if  the  class  conditional  causing  PDF for  all  class  has  same  coven  matrix, then  we  can  easily  see  that. The  optimal  classification is  a  linear  function. All  the  discriminal  function is  a  linear  function of  the  input  data  X. We  call  it  a  linear  classifier. It  is  a  linear  classpe, because  it  is  pretty  clear, the  class  boundary  in the  input  space  to  separate two  different  class  is  a  hyperplane. It's  a  linear  function  of  the  input  space. The  class  boundary  is  a  hyperplane or  align  in  two  dimensional  case. Now,  this  is  assumption that  all  class  has  same  coves  metric. But  the  one  sentence  is  very  important. Even  all  class  had  same  co  matrics, but  the  cores  matric  is  still useful  to  specify  the  optimal  classifier. We  cannot  just  ignore  it  because all  class  had  same  cores  magics. Then  we  just  don't  conser.  This  is  one. From  the  decision  boundary or  from  the  discriminant  function, we  say  that  the  function is  the  function  of  the  conce  magric. Different  cores  matrics,  even they  are  common  over  all  class, it  will  specify  different  discant  function or  the  class  boundary. Okay.  Now,  today  we  further simplify  the  classification  by use  more  stricter  conditions. So  the  spatial  case  two  is  we  assume all  class  not  just  have  same  cons  matrics, but  all  matrix  are  diagonomtri. We  know  a  diagonomtri, all  elements  of  element  are  zero. And  even  the  element in  this  diagonal  are  all  same  so that  the  cores  matrix is  a  so  called  scalar  matrix because  basically  just  one variance  multiply  identity  matrix. This  is  same  for  all  class. Now,  in  such  a  condition,  what  we  can  get? What  is  the  optimal  classifier,  right? Of  course,  if  the  con  matrix is  a  scalar  matrix, we  know  the  inverse  is just  the  inverse  of this  constant  sigma  square, and  the  determination is  just  a  multiplication of  this  overall  dimension  so  that  it  is a  sigma  to  a  power  of  power  of D.  Suppose  we  have  d  dimensional  data. This  is  a  very  simple  calculus. Now,  under  such  assumption, let's  see  how  we  can get  a  simpler  discrepant  functions. Now  start  from  what  we  get  from the  previous  sesion  or last  week  and  the common  as  matrix  for  all  class. We  have  such  a  discriminant  function, and  then  if  this  sigma cools  matrix  is  a  scala  matrix, its  inverse  is  pretty  simple. That  is  just  one  over  sigma  square  here, and  the  identical  identity matrix  in  this,  there's  no  change. We  simplify  our  discriminant function  in  this  one. Now,  if  we  cross multiplies  two  terms  together, then  we  get  this  nine. From  this  ne,  of  course, we  say  the  aquatic  term  of the  X  is  a  constant  over  different  class  I. So  we  can  remove  it. We  don't  need  to  compute it,  we  can  remove  it. Then  the  remaining  of course  is  amia  function  of the  Xia  function  in  the  input  space. This  is  obvious  because if  The  cons  matric  are  same, then  it  is  a  linear  function. But  of  course  here is  also  a  linear  function  of  the  X. But  now,  this  linear  function  are different  from  the  previous  one  because  if we  say  what  is  the  class  boundary  to separate  two  class  and  the  class  G, then  is  specified  by the  equation  that  the  discretion  function of  this  two  class  are  same. Then  this  equation  will specify  the  decision  boundary. Now,  if  Gi  is  this  equation, we  need  GR  equals  to  gG. Obviously,  we  get  this  equation  where this  two  W  are  computed  by  these  two  terms. We  get  this  equations. Now,  of  course, this  decision  boundary  is also  a  mia  function  of  the  X, that  it  is  a  straight  line in  two  dimensional  base, or  plane  in  dimensional  base  or  hyperplane. This  is  the  same  as  the  last  week. A  class  has  a  common  constrix. But  the  difference  here is  this  plane  all  this  line. Somehow,  from  this  expression, we  see  that  it  is  also  go  to the  line  to  link  this  two  class  means, two  class  center  because As  I  emphasized  before, a  high  dimensional  data  is a  point  in  high  dimensional  space. Then  of  course,  the  mean vector  is  also  a  point. Then  the  2.1  point  minus  the  point, two  point  minus  then  is  a  nine. This  mine  is  also  a  vector  start  from the  point  to  ui.  Is  also  a  vector. This  equation  will  spaify a  plane  where  this  plane will  also  going  to  align. Then  this  mine  is  a  nine  link, the  two  cent  or  class  vector. Although  here  the  Sigma. Square.  I  come  from the  con  matrix,  A  scalar  matrix. It  is  useful  in determining  what  is  this  plane. But  this  decision  boundary,  this  plane, use  this  sigma  only  determine the  triso  because  all  this  item is  a  scalar  value, just  one  single  venue. Well,  the  most  important  sense  is to  determine  what  is the  direction  of  the  plane. It  is  also  going  to  a  vector. The  vue  is  just we  place  this  plane  at  a  different  position. Parentally  move  this  plane. This  plane  is  also  going  to  the  vector  spent by  the  difference  of  the  two  class  vector. Such  a  very  simple  principles somehow  even  very experienced  research  complex  sens somehow  forget  this  simple  sens. Now,  what  means  if our  decision  boundary  is also  going  to  this  one? Then  we  can  see  that  in  a  learer  aspect, we  will  see  that  this  is  only  one  dimension. One  vector  only  determine  one  direction. This  difference  is  also  a  vector. I  determine  a  direction. This  vector  t  by the  data  into  the  data becomes  to  a  scalar  value. Now,  what  is  this  scalar  value? This  scalar  value  is  we  project the  high  dimensional  data  x  into  this  vector, Ices  to  one  dimensional  data. That  from  here,  we  can  see whatever  high  dimension  of the  original  data  es. Under  such  a  condition to  do  a  optimal  clasph, the  best  clasphe  only  need the  information  of this  high  dimensional  data  along  this  vector. It  is  just  one  dimension. Spent  by  the  difference of  the  class  mean  vectors. This  is  also  class  mean  class  mean  vector. Anyway,  this  modification  is a  scalar  value.  Here  we  can  say  that. Because  previous  sesion,  we already  introduced  the  between  class  ctmatri, is  the  covers  matri  of claus  of  class  or  class  mean  vectors. We  define  a  so  called  betwen  class  ctmtri. Some  professor  in  is Toro  research  work  means that  the  classification  can  be Formed  just  in  the  space spanned  by  the  cluster  centers. Outside  of  the  class  centers, because  the  between  class  matrix  are  zero, then  we  can  remove  it.  This  is  one. Only  if  the  22  the  class  cove  matrix is  a  scan  matrix. Then  we  can  see  the  classification only  depends  on  the  class  ing  vectors. Here,  this  is  only  the  choice. Some  classification  we  can  manually  all  based on  the  user  requirement to  determine  what  is  the  choice. To  adjust  the  classification  accuracy  for one  class  higher  and  at  the  price,  the  class. We  can  always  adjust  the  choice. The  main  information  is  here. Well,  we  project high  dimension  into  this  vector, then  we  can  just use  one  dimension  to  do  the  classification. To  perform  the  best  classification. Now,  this  is  the  meaning  of  this so  called  also  going  to this  difference  of  the  two  cluster  centers. The  direction,  how  to  get one  dimension  data  is nothing  to  do  with  the  cos  matrics. Because  cosmetric  is  only determined  by  the  betwen  class  comtric, or  the  difference  of the  cluster  class  or the  difference  of  the  class  vectors. Now  here  we  grains, what  is  the  meaning  of  this  class  bungary. For  one  dimensional  case, of  course,  it  is  a  choice. It  is  just  a.  In  this  choice, we  can  separate  this  two  class. This  suppose  the  two  class  has the  same  trile  that  we  only compile  the  class  conditional  PDF, which  one  is  higher? The  class  separation  is  this  point, this  e.  Now,  for  two  dimensional  case, then  the  class  fundry  is  street  nine. Now  this  street  nine is  is  also  going  to  this  nine, mink  these  two  cluster  centers. This  is  in  three  dimensional  case, then  the  class  boundary  is  a  hyperplane. This  hyperplane  is  also  also  going  to  a  nine, mink  this  two  cluster  centers. Now,  if  we  have  different  prior  probability for  different  class, the  effect  is  just  we  need  to move  this  ice  into  different  place. Depends  on  what  is the  prior  probability  of  the  two  class. For  example  here,  this  prior  probability of  the  black  class  is  larger  than  this  one. The  classic  will  move  to the  read  one  because  the  compile the  venue  should  be  this  class conditional  PDF  multiplied  by  the  pile. After  multiplication, this  value  multiplied  by 0.3  is  equals  to  this  value  multiplied  by. This  black  value  multiply  0.7  at this  point  is  equal  to this  red  value  multiplied  by  0.3. The  triso  is  car. Now,  if  somehow  we  have very  large  pop  for some  class  and  very  other  class, this  ice  can  even  move outside  of  the  two  class  center. Each  possible  depends  on  the  p.  Similarly, for  the  two  dimensional  case, it  is  a  street  line  for three  dimensional  case,  it  is  a  plane. Then  more  than  three  we  call  it  hyperplane. Anyway,  it  is  a  mei  function  of  the  input  X. Now,  we  recall  that the  discrenant  function  will  simplify here  if  the  class  conditions  matrix are  scalar  mitx, and  the  same  all  class, then  we  have  the  discreminant  functions. Now,  this  discrete  functions, suppose  all  class  has same  prio  probability  P  or  go. Then  this  term  we  can remove  from  the  disc  function. If  we  remove  this  one, then  this  sigma  i can  also  remove  because  it  is also  same  for  different  different  class. O  discretional  function  will  be simplify  into  this  one.  What  is  this? This  is  a  equity  distance  between the  input  x  with  the  cluster  center. A  class  mean  vectors. This  is  by  declion, is  a  equity  distance. The  bast  classpee  reduced to  the  minimum  distance  claspe. We  will  classify  input  into  a  class  that has  minimum  euclid  distance to  the  clust  center. I  two  weeks  ago, I  already  introduced this  minimum  distance  classp to  solve  the  problem  of  the  merest  or  clasp. We  only  need  to  compute the  cle  distance  between the  input  the  two  cluster  center. We  don't  need  to  compute  the  distance to  all  chinese  samples. This  is  a  minimum  distance  class. So  it  is  very  intuitive. We  use  a  cluster  center  to  represent  a  class. Then  how  to  classify  the  inputs? We  just  say  this  input close  to  which  center  of  the  class, then  we  classify  it  into  which  class. This  is  the  minimum  distance  class  here. Now,  from  this  sic  derivation, it  is  clear  to  show  that although  the  minimum  distance casphere  is  very  intuitive, we  can  very  easy  to  understand, but  it  is  only optimum  and  a  very  strict  conditions. It  only  achieve the  best  result  and  meaning  conditions. A  class  must  be  gain  PDF. All  class  must  have  same  cons  matrix. Even  the  cores  matrix  must be  a  diagonal  scala  matrix, and  the  prio  pro  for  all  class  must  be  same. Under  all  these  conditions, we  can  simply  just  compute the  Euclid  distance  between the  unknown  input  to each  class  center  to  do  the  classification. Otherwise,  this  classification will  not  be  optimum. We  are  not  be  the  best  classifier,  right? Here,  we  will  also  show the  powerful  of  the  mathematics. Of  course,  they  are  also linked  to  some  of  our  intuitive  thinking  now. Yeah.  But  we  must somehow  learn  how  to utilize  these  mathematic  tools.  Why? Of  course, this  minimum  nuclear  distance  classif is  called  template  matching. Temport  matching  means  for  one  class, we  just  use  one  point to  represent  this  class. Here  is  a  class  center  or  mean  vector. We  call  it  the  template to  represent  this  class. It's  a  temporary  matching because  to  do  the  classification, we  only  compare  the  input with  the  template  of  each  class. Okay.  Now  here,  we  can  see  that  we  can  get the  analy  formula  of the  optimal  decision  optimal  prediction and  a  guin  assumption. It  is  only  possible. We  assume  each  class  is  a  gain  PDF. Then  we  can  get  the  closed  solution, what  is  the  best  prediction. For  other  PDF,  that  we cannot  get  this  mathematic  formula, what  is  the  best  classification to  simplify  it  to  do  the  classif. This  analytic  form  is only  possible  for  gucing  assumption. But  in  the  practice, especially  for  meaning  real  data, it  may  not  be  a  guin  distribution. The  class  conditional  sample may  not  be  a  PDF. If  we  can  find  a  way  for whatever  of  the  distribution  of  the  data, we  can  design  a  transform  to transform  the  data  into  a  larger  space, and  then  in  this  new  space, the  data  is  a  gucing  PDF. Then  it  is  very  good. We  can  design  our  best  class  fhere in  this  new  space. Here,  give  us  a  question,  is  it  possible? We  can  transfer  the original  data  in  another  space. In  this  new  space, we  convert  the  distribution  or probability  density  of any  arbitrary  probability  density into  a  Gain  PDF. Is  it  possible  or  not? After  I  teach  this  course, one  of  my  students  figure  out, this  one  could  be  possible. Because  from  the  idea of  the  scram  equalization, we  gin  watch  the  Hm  equalization. His  equalization  to  gate  the  equalized  image, then  this  image  has all  our  uniform  distributed. That  means  whatever  input,  the  Hs, whatever  distribution,  we  can convert  it  into  a  uniform  distribution. Why  we  cannot  use  to  convert any  three  inform  distribution  into  a  Gusin If  we  can  do,  we  can convert  it  into  a  uniform. It  is  also  possible,  we convert  it  into  a  Gausm. If  this  is  a  possible, then  we  can  design our  optim  cross  analytically. We  can  always  get  the  best  solutions for  all  classification  problem. Right?  Appears  to  be a  feasible.  It  is  a  posible. But  after  the  research, it  finds  that  this  is  only possible  if  the  input is  one  dimensional  data. Because  for  the  scam  equzation, it  is  also  a  one  dimensional  data. We  have  only  curve, convert  into  the  uniform distribution  is  just  one  curve. This  is  for  one  dimensional  data. Data  is  the  value  of  the  pixel. Q  value  of  the  pi  is  a  random  variable, it  is  only  one  dimension, the  Qi  value  is  only  one  single  value. It  shows  that. It  is  a  possible.  We  can also  convert  the  data of  any  PD  of  any  distribution  into  a  Gu  sing, but  only  theoretically,  we  can  only  figure out  how  to  do  that  for  one  dimensional  data. Now,  if  the  data  is  a  high  dimensional, my  student  work  quite a  long  time  and  cannot  find  the  solution, how  to  do  that  for  high  dimensional  data. But  in  the  practice, in  terms  of  the  classification  or  prediction, we  always  have  high  dimensional  data. The  data  cannot  be  just  one  dimension. The  different  sample  we try  to  classify  it  is not  just  a  single  venue. For  high  dimensional  data,  it  is  impossible. I  not  necessarily  impossible. We  cannot  find  a  way  to  do  that. But  then  after  that, he  found  that  for some  specific  distribution  of  the  data, we  can  find  a  way even  high  dimension  of  data, we  can  find  a  way  to  convert  into  a  gausin. For  example,  if  the  input  data  is  some  of the  chi  square  distribution. This  distribution  of  the  data is  very  often  hyben  for  the  data. For  the  feature,  we  use  the  ALBP  histogram. If  we  take  some  histogram  at  the  feature, then  most  likely  this  data we  are  sure  that  distribution  is such  kind  of  i  square  distribution. I  forgot  exactly  the  name. Then  we  can  figure  out  some of  the  transform  to  transform it  into  a  gain  distribution. We  can  design  our  class fhere  in  the  new  space of  the  Guin  distribution. But  this  is  only  for  some  particular  PDF. We  can  find  a  way  to  convert it  in  guin  for  high  dimension  or  one. But  still,  this  work  is  managed  to publish  transection  and  image  processing. Now,  we  will  start  a  new  topic. Sat  estimation  and  machine  learning. In  this  topic,  we  will study  two  main  subtopics. First  is  the  so  called non  parametic  approach. Another  one  is  parametric  approach. For  the  non  parametric  approach, we  will  study  two  method parson  window  approach and  the  est  neighbor  approach. For  param  approach,  we  first  study the  maximum  nehod  estimation  because the  maximum  nehod  estimation can  get  a  closed  solution. What  is  the  result  if  we assume  that  the  PDF  is  going. But  for  non  gazing, then  we  find  a  way  use the  galen  mixture  to try  to  use  the  gain  mixture  to  do  that. But  for  gal  mixture  case, I  believe  in  this  course, I  skip  this  part. But  although  we  can  only get  the  a  results  for  gas  PDF, but  for  any  p  three  gals  we  can use  the  mixture  of  the  galsin. Now,  why  we  stop  such  kind  of the  stat  estimation  or  also  called machine  learning  because  theory we  already  figure  out  to  achieve the  minimum  rate  for whatever  prediction  classification  or other  type  of  this  prediction. The  optimum  prediction  is to  minimize  the  rate. Now,  if  we  minimize  the  error  rate, it's  the  same  as  maximize because  of  this  equation, it  is  the  same  as  maximize a  poster  probability. Well  postal  probability,  we  can  compute  it  by prior  probability  and the  class  conditional  probability. This  is  very  simple  formula, we  can  very  easy  to  understand  this  one  to do  to  take  optimal  predictions. Now,  to  design  grim to  do  such  of  the  classification, we  must  make  our  machine work  for  any  a  three  input  value  of  the  X. That  we  need  the  whole  fun  PX, not  just  one  single  venue. We  need  the  PDF. We  need  the  whole  curve  or  whole  surface  or even  more  complete  high  dimension of  fun,  PDF. Although  we  already  derive what  is  our  solution based  on  the  assumption  that  PDF  is  ging. But  in  the  practice, it  may  not  be  a  galing. So  we  also  don't  know  what  is  its  PDF. In  many  different  real  application. We  have  no  way  to  know  what is  the  PDF  for  different  class. What  we  have  is just  a  set  of  the  training  data. To  solve  the  problem, to  design  the  class  fell or  to  do  some  kind  of  prediction, we  need  only  this  training  data to  design  our  system. We  need  utilize this  training  data  to  estimate what  is  the  class  conditional  PDF. Here,  we  have  somehow  to  determine  or estimate  some  value  based on  the  training  data. This  value  is  used  to  measure some  property  characteristic  of a  random  variable  of  the  input  X. Then  this  is  a  t  statistic  estimation because  we  have  set  of  the  data to  estimate  some  fixed  value to  measure  the  random  variable. This  statistic  estimation  in  fact, is  exactly  same  as  the  machine  learning. Machine  learning  is  used the  tran  to  earn  a  model. Then  this  model  can  be  used  to  represent the  characteristic  of  the  random  variable of  the  input,  right? Now,  if  the  input  is  uncertain, we  can  only  measure  it  by  random  variable. From  the  probability  theory, we  know  the  probability  distribution  or probability  density  function  PDF is  a  complete  information about  a  random  variable. There's  no  more  information we  can  get  for  whatever. So  that  PDF  is the  complete  information of  a  random  variable. If  we  can  use  the  training  data to  learn  the  PDF, then  we  learn  every. We  cannot  learn  more  than  that  because PDF  is  the  final  complete  information. Talking  about  the  random  variable. Right?  Of  course, we  know  for  the  best  prediction, we  need  a  postal  probability. But  a  postal  probability, somehow  it  is  very  difficult  directly to  handle  it  to  compute  it  or  to  estimate  it. But  we  know  a  postal  probability can  be  expressed  by a  pile  multiplied  by  class  conditional  PDF. We  convert  our  estimation  or  learning  we learn  a  pile  probability of  the  different  class  and  for  each  class, we'll  learn  what  is  a  PDF. We  call  is  a  class  conditional  PDF. Right?  Now,  for  the  prior  probability, if  we  only  have  a  set  of  the  training  data. Some  sample  some  data  belong to  this  class  some  data belong  to  a  are  class. Anyway,  we  have  only a  set  of  the  training  data. What  is  the  way  to  estimate a  pile  provi  of  the  different  class? Here,  show  a  sample  the  prior  provi of  the  different  class  is  just  N  K  over  N, N  K  is  a  number  of the  training  sample  in your  training  data  set. N  is  a  total  number  of  the  training  sample. Now,  different  class  may  have different  number  of  the  training  sample, the  N  K  will  be  different  for  different k.  Although  this  is an  estimate  of  the prior  probability,  very  simple. But  I  don't  think  we can  figure  out  a  beta  way. If  we  have  only  a  set  of  the  training  data. No  other  information. This  is  the  only  way  the  best  way to  estimate  what  is the  prior  probabilty  of  the  different  class. Now  we  solve  one  problem. Now,  next  one,  we  will  solve  the  problem, how  to  estimate  the  class  conditional  PDF. Now,  for  estimate  the  class  conditional  PDF, of  course,  if  we  only  use the  training  data  of  this  class. That  means  we  use this  subset  of  the  training  data  to  estimate the  PDF  supported  by this  subset  of  the  training  data of  one  particular  class,  right? Okay,  B  to  estimate the  class  conditional  PDF for  different  class, the  method  are  exactly  the  same. To  simplify  our  mathematic  expression, we  just  say  that, we  estimate  the  PX. We  remove  this  class  condition because  if  we  only use  the  20  sample  of  one  class, then  to  estimate  PX is  this  condition  to  this  class. This  is  just  to  simplify  it. Suppose  we  have  unt  sample, then  based  on  this  Nt  sample, how  to  estimate  it. PDF.  Now,  again, the  training  sample  is  discrete  point. Although  it  is  a  high  dimension, anyway  is  also  a  point in  high  dimensional  space. We  have  discrete  point  sample, sample  two  sample  0.1  0.2  0.3. And  so  whatever  number of  the  training  data  you  have, it  is  just  a  discrete. Now,  based  on  this  discrete  point, we  need  to  estimate  a  continuous  fun. This  function,  we  must  know  what  is the  density  value  probably  density  value  p for  aiming  value  of  the  X. It  is  a  continuous  against  this  X. From  the  discrete  value  to  freak  out  to estimate  all  non  continuous  functions. Another  one  is  here,  so  called  ID. This  is  very  often appear  in  many  paper  or  literature. The  ID  means  identical  distribution or  independent  identical  distribution. It  means  that  all  this  t  sample must  have  same  distribution. For  example,  all  this  sample  is  a  face. That  all  the  training  sample should  have  s  PDF. All  this  training  sample  must  be  independent. Randomly  connected,  must  be  independent. Now,  if  somehow  you  connect  this  dataset, you  have  some  purpose, if  you  first  collect  hm  phase  of  ma. The  next  one,  you  think  about  I  should connect  phase  image  of  ma. Then  this  is  not  independent. B  you  want  to  connect the  next  sample  depends on  your  knowledge  of your  previous  train  sample, then  they  are  not  independent. There  must  be  independent  training  sample, and  all  20  sample  has  same  distribution. Such  kind  of  s  is independent  and  identical  distributed. I  is  called  ID. Now,  based  on  all  the  t  sample  how to  nu  its  concuo  function  PDF. Okay.  Here,  we  need to  understand  what  is  the  PD. What  is  the  PD  means  the  probability  density. Now,  we  need  to  estimate the  probability  density  P.  If  we integrate  the  density  within some  volume  area, then  the  result  will  be  the  probability. This  one  is  a  common  sense. Density  integration  is  a  mass. Samy,  we  define  the  probability  density is  a  density  of  the  probability. The  integration  of  the  density is  a  probability.  Okay. So  the  density  integrate  over  a  region  is equal  to  the  probability  of the  random  variable  fall inside  of  this  region,  right? This  is  the  basic  concept of  the  density  at  mass. Now,  this  integration can  be  approximat  equals to  the  density  multiplied by  the  volume  of  this  region. All  the  area  of  this  region, whatever  depends  on  what  is  the  dimension  of your  e.  It  could  be a  interval  for  one  dimensional  case  area for  two  dimensional  case, a  volume  for  three  dimensional  case or  hype  volume  anyway, some  of  the  size  of  this  region. A  density  multiplied  by  size  of  this  region then  is  approximately equals  to  this  probability. Now,  in  this,  in what  case  they  are  exactly  equal. In  what  case,  they  are  equal, not  approximately  equal.  In  two  cases. One  is,  if  this  bensP  is  the  same  venue, In  all  this  region  R  X. Then  of  course,  the  mass is  a  density  multiplied  by  the  volume. If  they  are  constantly  same  value. This  integration  is  just multiplied  by  this  volume. We  understand  what  is the  physical  meaning  of  the  integration. They  are  exactly  the  same. Now,  but  in  general  case, the  density  may  be different  different  positions. Then  they  are  not  the  same, but  if  you  approach  to  same if  this  approach  to  zero. If  this  vase  become  very  small,  small, very  small,  then  the integration  is  almost  the  same. At  the  mimit,  then  they  are  exactly  same. We  have  the  concept of  what  is  the  differentiation, what  is  the  integration? A  come  from  the  limit, the  v  approach  to  zero, then  this  one  will  be exactly  the  same  as  this  integration. That's  the  concept  of  the  integration. Now,  basically,  what  we have  is  the  density  multiplied by  the  volume  of  a  region is  equal  to  the  probability. Now,  we  need  to  estimate  what  is  the  density. We  have  first  to  estimate what  is  the  probability,  right? Now  how  to  estimate  the  probability, it  is  very  simple. Suppose  we  have  n  samples, we  have  n  point. Together,  we  have  n  point. Then  given  position  X  in  this  input  space. Now,  if  we  get  some  region  of the  region  R  or  some  volume  of  the  r, Then  if  we  can  count how  many  training  samples fall  inside  of  this  region  r. For  example,  it  is  a  k.  Then  the  k over  n  is  the  probability  is  the  estimate of  the  probability  of the  X  fall  inside  of  the  region r.  We  have  all  port  number of  the  point  is  Inside  of  the  some  area, we  have  k  point  inside  of  them. Altogether  in  whole  space, we  have  n.  Then  the  probab  of the  X  fall  inside  of  this  region  is k  and  this  is  a  very  simple  s.  I  believe some  secondary school  student  already  mean  that. Also,  if  we  only  have  that  thing  data, we  don't  have  any  other  polleg. This  is  the  only  way to  compute  the  probability. Now,  if  we  have  the  probability  of the  X  fall  inside  of  this  r, then  what  is  the  density? Of  course,  the  density  is just  the  probability  divided by  the  volume  of  this  region, or  the  area  of  this  region. Then  we  get  the  density. Now,  our  estimation  method  just  based  on  this very  intuitive,  same  simple  ideas. K  over  N  is  a  probability divided  by  the  size  of  this  region. Then  is  the  probability  density. We  just  use  this  very  intuitive  way to  estimate  or  to  n  the  PDF. Now,  this  is  a  non parametic  approach  because  we never  assume  the  PDF  is  a  gaussian  function, or  non  plasin  function, or  uniform  distributed  function. We  never  assume  any  function  of  the  PDF. We  directly  estimate  the  numeric  value of  the  P  for  different  value  of the  X  as  a  function  P  as a  function  of  the  g.  This is  a  non  parametic  approach. Now,  although  this  one appears  to  be  very  simple. We  just  given  X. We  just  fix,  then count  how  many  tin  sample  k  inside  of  this. Then  divided  by  the  total  number  of  sample, then  divided  by  v,  then we  get  the  probability. If  we  want  to  have  this  function, we  just  try  for  all  possible  value  of  the  X, we  do  such  of  the  computation. It  is  very  straightforward. But  here, this  procedure  to  study  how  to  do  it. Here,  repeat  again,  the  procedure  to  estimate the  PDF  based  on training  sample  is  very  straightforward. Given  a  venue  of  the  g, we  need  what  probit. Then  we  say  neck  region  or  a  C of  this  size  centered  at  this  ag then  count  how  many  t  sample is  inside  of  this  this  region  or  sale. Then  we  just  use  k  over  and  over  to compute  what  is  the  PDF  value for  given  X  value. Then  of  course,  then  we  to  estimate it  over  many  different  input  X  value. We  get  a  function  value  of  the  X. Now,  the  method  self is  very  intuitive,  very  straightforward. But  we  have  one  problem. How  to  choose  this  region, how  to  choose  the  size and  the  shape  of  this  region. Obviously,  if  you  choose different  shape  of  the  region, choose  different  size  of  the  region, the  learned  PDF  or estimated  PDF  will  be  different. It  can  be  totally  different. I  just  give  you  an  example. If  you  take  this  region  is  extremely  large, for  value  of  the  X, you  choose  a  very  u  region. Then  in  this  huge  region, it  contains  all  your  training  data. Then  for  whatever  x, the  k  always  equals  to n.  Always  equals  to  n.  At  the  end, you  will  get  a  uniform  uniform  distribution. Because  for  whatever  x  value, your  sex  reading  is  huge, contains  all  n  inside  of  this  region. Then  of  course,  then  it  is  just  a  uniform. Now,  if  you  choose this  region  very  small,  what  happen? Then  for  vast  majority  of  the,  the  e  zero. Only  at  the  X  just  at  the  training  point, it  is  the  K  one. Because  if  X  is very  close  or  exactly  the same  as  the  value  of  the  training  data, then  of  course,  K  one. Although  but  this  could  be  very  small. This  is  infinity. As  a  result,  your  PDA  is  mainly  impasse. Each  20  sample  at the  position  of  the  20  sample, you  have  the  impasse, or  other  position  of  the  X  or  a  z. If  you  choose  the  region,  very  small. We  have  the  problem  although the  method  is  very  direct. It's  very  intuitive,  we  can, but  how  to  choose  this  way, how  to  choose  the  shape. Okay.  Now,  to  further study  this  problem  and how  to  solve  this  problem, we  first  use  a  the  simplest  way to  see  how  to  get  the  result. Now,  we  first  to  chose our  region  is  a  hyper  que. That  means  if  for  two  dimensional  case, we  choose  a  square  as  a  region, given  any  x  value, we  put  a  square  centered  at this  g.  Then  we  have  the  square. This  is  a  region.  For  three  dimension, of  course,  it  is  a  cube. High  dimension  is  what  we  call  a  hypercube. If  you  understand  the  two  dimension, then  we  can  understand  if we  this  X  is  a  hypercube,  is  a  square. Then  how  to  find T  sample  is  inside of  this  region  or  outside  of  this  region, mathematically  will  be  very  simple for  each  or  all  dimension. If  the  difference  of  the  20  sample  at one  dimension  with  the  X is  smaller  than  half  of the  sides  of  the  square. Then  this  t  sample  X here  is  inside  of  this  region. Otherwise,  it's  outside  of  the  region. Also  if  our  eye  can  see  the  20  sample, we  can  very  easily  see  the 20  sample  inside  or  outside. But  we  need  to  use the  computer  to  compute  it. For  high  dimsional  case,  we  cannot  see  it. We  need  use  a  formula  to compute  different  20  sample x  has  high  dimension, it  is  inside  of  this  hypercube or  outside  because  it's  a  square. That  means  every  dimension  must  be  smaller. The  difference  to  the  center  must  be  smaller than  half  of  the  side  length  of  the  square. This  is  very  simple. We  understand  that  this  is  for  all  dimension, the  g  from  one  to  D suppose  we  have  d  dimensional  data. If  a  20  sample  s  is  fine  this  inequity, then  this  20  sample  is inside  of  this  region, otherwise  it's  outside. Then  after  that,  what  we  need  to do  is  for  all  20  sample  given  X. For  all  20  sample, we  need  to  compute  it  to check  it  is  inside  or  outside. Then  we  need  to  count how  many  20  sample  is  inside  of  this  region. Then  we  get  the  value  of  the  K. Then  we  get  the  estimate  of  the  PDF, based  on  this  formula. Here,  to  further  visualize  it, we  use  the  one  dimensional  case. Suppose  the  training  data  for different  sample  is  just  one  value. Different  training  data  is different  value,  single  value. A  twining  sample  can  be  represented  by  point of  this  one  dimensional  number  Xs. In  this  example,  we  we have  four  twining  samples. Now  in  this  four  twining  samples, suppose  we  want  to  based  on this  four  twining  samples to  estimate  the  PDF. We  use  a  hypercube as  the  region  and  the  size  is  here. Then  for  any  given  variable  value, we  need  to  check. A  twining  sample  is  inside  of this  cube  or  outside  of  this  cube,  right? Obviously,  for  this  value  of  the  X, we  can  very  easily  see, we  have  320  sample  inside,  one  outside. The  probability  is  over  four. The  probab  density  is  a  over four  divided  by  the  nuts  of  this  one. Then  we  get  that.  PDF  vue  Nut by  this  20  data, four  x  equals  to  this  point.  Right? Now,  from  here,  our  human  eyes can  very  easily  to  see  that  how  to  do  that. For  given  any  e, we  use  a  window. Then  use  this  window, we  check  window  of  size  H.  Then we  see  how  sample inside  how  many  are  outside. But  we  need  compute  this  one, use  the  computer  automatically, not  use  our  human  eyes  to  check  how  to  do  it. Here,  we  design,  we design  a  so  called  kernel  functions. Well,  this  kernel  functions  is  one within  the  kernel  and zero  outside  of  the  kernel. The  co  functions,  we  first define  a  unit  or  standard  nel  functions. The  nth  is  one. That  if  this  difference  is  smaller  than  half, then  is  one,  otherwise  it  is  zero. We  first  design  such  a  co  functions. One  or  zero  is just  a  window  function,  same  as  here. Right?  Now,  if  we  want  to  use  different  size, then  we  just  replace  this  u by  x  divided  by  h.  Then  the  nth  of this  window  or  kernel  becomes  to  the H.  If  we  want  to put  this  kernel  center at  a  different  position, we  just  minus  x  i. Then  this  one  is  a  general  form. We  put  our  kernel  function  at  center  at  x  i. With  the  kernel  function,  is  h.  Now, this  kernel  function  is inside  of  this  kernel  s is  by  this  in  equity I  is  one  outside  is  zero. From  here,  we  can  see  if  we  put this  kernel  function  at  each  of  the  samples, and  then  kernel  functions  together, it  will  produce  the  value of  number  of  the  training  sample inside  of  the  kernel. Now,  for  example,  the  value of  the  value  of  this  key  is  s  here. This  samples  S  is equals  to  one  plus  one  plus  one  plus  z. This  ptca  because  if a  tiny  sample  is  close  to the  center  smaller  than  half  of the  ns  then  if  we put  the  center  this  position, then  it  is  also smaller  than  half  of  this  ins. This  pticar  geometrically. We  convert  this  counting  process into  the  sum  of  the  kernel  funion. To  get  what  is  the  number of  the  sample  inside  of this  nel  inside  of  this  kernel  centered  at  x. This  kernel  function  is some  overall  timing  datas. By  such  a  way  we  can  use  the  computer  to compute  this  k  for any  abitare  value  of  the  X. Of  course,  this  is the  number  of  the  20  samples. To  get  the  PDF, we  need  to  divide  by  n  then  divide  by  the in  the  ng  of this  window  for  two  dimension is  the  area  of  the  square. For  high  dimension,  it  is a  volume  of  the  high  dimensional  Q, is  a  H  of  the  d, d  is  a  dimension. This  example  is  d  equals  to  one. Then  we  use  this  one  to estimate  what  is  the  PDF. Now  we  figure  out.  This  method  is just  the  sum  of the  kernel  functions  over  all  twining  data. Each  kernel  function  is the  kernel  function  centered at  each  twining  samples. The  sum  them  together. We  can  compute  the  key. Then  just  normalized  by total  number  of  the  twining  sample, and  normalized  by  the  area or  the  volume  of  your  kernel. Then  we  get  the  PDF. We  convert  this  accounting as  sum  of  the  kernel  functions. Now,  then  here,  we  just  gave a  numeric  example  to say  given  a  numeric  value of  the  twining  data  here, the  numeric  value  is  in  one  dimensional  data is  the  dt  is  in  this  number  sequences. Then  we  need  to  estimate  the  PDF. Then  here  give  an  example,  for  example, for  this  position  of  the  input  x  to  three, what  is  the  PDF  if  our  kernel  is the  size  of  four  H  x  to  four. For  whatever  position  to  get  what  is the  PDF  value  is  same  formula  with just  some  of  the  ten  kernel  functions. Suppose  we  have  ten  training  data. Now,  each  nel  function  a centered  at  each  training  samples. Then  sum  over  them  together, then  to  get  the  PDF for  different  input  value, then  we  just  place  this  variable  as  three. Then  we  get  the  PDF  at  this  position. We  put  this  y  as  the  ten. Then  we  get  the  PDF  venue  at  this  position. We  put  this  same  formula. We  put  this  as  15, then  we  get  the  PDF  venue  of here.  At  this  position. Now,  because  we  define  our  kernel  function  is this  smaller  than  half,  not  include  equ. Here  at  this  position, the  kernel  is  full right  from  this  point  to  this  point, but  not  include  the  20  sample  at  the  eight. Is  only  one  here, only  one  sample  inside  of  the  kernel. The  kernel  function  put  at  this  position  at this  value  is  zero  because our  definition  is  not  include  equ. Of  course,  you  can  also  define a  color  fun  include the  equ  the  result  will  be  different. Anyway,  here,  I  just  explain  why this  one  is  this  value only  among  the  ten  items, one  item  one,  all  other  are  zero. This  one  is  contributed  by  this  20  data. This  20  sample,  all  other  are  zero. Although  you  can  say  you  may say  this  two  is  also  inside  of  the  kernel, no  because  it  did  not  include  equal. I  must  only  include  small  than  1/2. Similarly,  at  at  this  time  position, the  computation  is  zero. This  point  is  not  inside  of  the  kernel. For  this  position,  the  kernel will  include  one,  two,  three,  four. It  is  a  four  sum  together  is  four. This  is,  numeric  example, how  to  utilize  this  formula to  compute  the  PDF. Now,  this  is  intuitive. I  believe  all  of  you  understand  that. The  method  is  not  magic,  is  not  difficult. But  we  should  find  the  limitations. What  is  the  problem  of  so  simple  method? The  scientific  method  can  be  so  simple. Now,  we  will  see  what  is the  possible  problem  of  this  method? First,  we  can  see  that. The  finally  estimated  PDF  is the  sum  of  the  kernel  functions, the  functions. Now  here  we  chose  this  kernel  function, is  a  cube  or  a  window  or a  gate  function  or we  have  many  different  names, just  a  square  function square  window  functions. This  to  help  us  easy  to  understand  it. But  if  we  choose  this  window  function, it  may  cause  the  problem. What  is  the  problem? It's  the  sum  of  windows. Or  window  kernels. As  a  result,  this  summation  finally produce  this  PDF  will be  maning  state  functions. It  is  not  smooth  functions. For  example,  the  mission result,  I  ignore  this  one. This  one  is  just  to  normalize. The  summation  of  this four  kernel  will  produce the  PDF  will  be  always  zero  up  to  here. Then  suddenly  becomes  to  one, and  keep  one  up  to  here, suddenly  becomes  to  two. Keep  two  from  this  point  to  the, and  then  suddenly  becomes  to  three. Then  suddenly  it  becomes  two, becomes  to  one,  become  zero. It  consists  of  smooth  state  functions. The  real  PDF  cannot  be such  of  the  state  functions. Now,  this  is  a  caused by  we  choose  our  el  function as  rectangle  functions  or  hypercube. This  cause  the  problem. Then  we  need  to  solve  the  problem. Now,  another  problem  is  from  here, we  understand  our  learned  PDF is  just  sum  of  the  kernel  functions. This  function,  it  means  the  function each  c  function  is a  centered  item  every  training  sample. That  means  a  training  sample  will contribute  to  some  value  to  our  PDF. This  contribution  of  the  training  sample. From  this  sum  of  the  color  function, it  is  a  pretty  near. The  training  sample  will contribute  to  this  PDF zero  for  x  outside  of  this  window. There's  no  contribution. Then  the  training  sample  will  contribute to  the  PDF  becomes  zero, suddenly  become  to  one from  this  point  up  to  this  point. This  is  also  unreasonable. Why  the  twining  sample will  contribute  to  the  PDF  one, same  at  the  position  of  the  20  sample  up to  the  position  far  away  from  the  20  sample. The  contribution  to  the  PDF is  exact  same  one. Why  is  this  ting  sample contribute  to  the  PDF  will  suddenly become  to  zero  if the  distance  to  this  20  sample just  slight  increase. This  of  co  is  not  very  reasonable,  right? Now,  of  course,  the  more  reasonable  way is  should  be  a  training  sample  should contribute  to  the  PDF  highest  value for  the  x  equals  same  as  the  twine  sample. Then  the  contribution  of  this  tine  sample  to the  PDF  should  be  decreased  for the  position  far  away from  this  tiny  sample  and should  it  be  smoothly even  outside  of  this  window. Okay. From  here,  we  can  see  we should  replace  such  kind  of the  window  function  by smoothly  and  greatly  reduced  function. Such  as  the  gain  fashions, not  the  square  fashions. If  we  use  the  guan  function,  it  is  a  smooth. If  we  use  the  gaussian  function, it  is  a  physical  meaning  more  reasonable. We  have  the  highest  value  contributed  to the  PDF  to  the  value  of  the  20  sample and  the  contribution  will  greatly  reduce for  greatly  far  away  from  the  20  sample. In  fact,  here  we  will  say that  we  should  choose  this  kernel  function. In  fact,  function  can  be  used  as this  kernel  function  if it  satisfy  these  conditions. First,  the  kernel  function  value must  be  non  zero because  if  you  will  show a  training  data  will  contribute  to  the  PDF. PDF  is  non  negative. It  be  always  non negative  for  all  value  of  the  input. Because  we  need  some  kind  of  normalization. The  integration,  whatever  kernel  you  choose, you  can  choose  a  very  flat  kernel. You  can  choose  a  very  sharp  kernel, but  the  integration  of the  kernel  must  be  a  same  venue, a  constant  one,  for  example. If  a  function  satisfy  the  two  functions, the  two  conditions, then  can  be  used  as  the  kernel. Of  course,  usually  this is  we  talk  about the  standard  kernel  functions. In  the  real  case  is  the  kernel  function, we  can  choose  different  ways,  different  size. We  put  this  at  different positions  such  as  we  put the  function  at  the  center at  the  different  chinese  sample. And  then  this  integration  should  be multiple  integration  to  simplify the  symple  adjust  use  one  integration  sin. Because  if  this  u  is a  vector  is  a  high  dimension, then  if  this  is  ten  dimsion, we  need  to  integrate  ten  times  over every  of  this  variable  in  this  vector. This  is  obvious,  because  of  that, this  integration  becomes  here over  Hg  to  the  p  of  the  d  come  from this  d  x  over  Hg  is  equals to  one  over  h  to  the  p  of  the  d  dx, if  we  have  the  multiple  d  times of  this  integration. If  we  have  such ten  of  the  condition  site  is  fine, then  can  serve  as  a  fungens. These  two  conditions  will be  satisfied  by  all  PDA  function. A  PDA  function  for  them, Gas  PDF  function  can  be  served  as  the  kernel. Before  we  go  to  the  example, I  will  say  another  very  important  sence. What  is  this  very  important  sentence? Here,  the  given  is a  set  of  the  training  data. We  have  a  discrete  point. What  we  need  to  g  is a  continuous  function.  How  to  do  it. We  first  convert  each  sample, each  training  sample,  discrete  sample, to  a  continuous  gain  functions. Then  sum  all  the  continuous  gal  function together  after  normalization, then  we  get  our  result. Now,  from  here,  we  can see  this  machine  learning  process is  very  similar  to the  transitional  single  processing, the  sampling  process. Just  inverse. In  the  single  processing, to  sample  a  contused  function into  a  discrete  point. You  can  recall  what  is  the  process, how  to  analyze  their  renations. We  need  to  use  no  puse  filters. No  pass  filter  is  a  continuous  filters. But  we  sent  this no  pass  filter  I  different  training  samples, Sm  them  together. This  pattern  window  approach is  just  the  inverse  of  the  sampling  process. Sampling  process converts  a  continuous  function into  a  set  of  the  discrete  point. Here,  the  pa  window  approach  converts a  discrete  training  data  into a  continuous  functions.  The  inverse. Although  the  machine  learning  is dominated  in  computer  science. But  the  sampling  process is  a  traditional  way  in single  processing  in  our  Tb  E  or  do  E. The  student  in  computer  science never  study  single  processing. They  don't  know  what  is  the  sampling, what  is  theory  of  the  sampling. But  here,  the  machine  learning  is just  the  inverse  of  the  sampling  process. Nat  any  machine  learning  is always  given  a  discte  training  data. We  try  to  find  a  continuous  function. It's  just  a  inverse  process  of the  sampling  to  sample the  continuous  function into  a  discrete  sample. But  why  we  call  it  the  learning? Because  this  inverse  is not  the  same  as  a  feet  forward. Given  a  continuous  function, we  can  get  a  very  sure get  exact  result  of  the  discrete  point. But  given  a  discrete  point to  inverse  to  a  continous  function, we  have  a  meanings. Now,  both  here. If  we  want  to  even  here  show that  we  better use  continuous  smooth  functions, we  choose  gucing  functions. Even  you  choose  a  guz  ungen, you  can  choose  a  flat  gauze  function. You  can  choose  a  very  sharp  gals  makings. How  to  choose  these  ways. This  parameter.  If  you choose  different  parameter, the  result  will  be  totally  different. At  the  beginning,  I  mentioned  that, if  you  choose  the  size of  the  region  different, the  results  are  totally  different. This  is  the  problem  of  the  machine  learning. We'll  always  have  some  uncertainty. We  need  to  choose some  parameter  to  get  the  result. But  different  choice  of  this  parameter, the  machine  learn  result  will  be  different. For  example  here,  if  we  have only  one  t  20  samples, then  use  it  to  un  a  PDF, then  is  just  a  gals, one  single  galsin  functions. Now,  but  this  galsin  could  be  a  flat  gals, could  be  a  very  sharp  galsin. Depends  on  what  is  the  standard. What  is  the  variance  you  H. Is  the  variance  of  the  gals. If  you  choose  different  one, the  result  will  be  different. Now,  here  show  example, if  we  have  1020  samples, then  this  machine  result  is a  sum  of  the  ten  continuous  galcin  functions. Sent  at  ten  different  tee  samples. But  if  you  choose a  small  ways  of the  g  or  choose  nare  ways  of  the  gcing, the  result  will  be  different. Even  you  have  120  samples, if  you  choose  different  state  deviation or  variants  of  the  gin, the  result  also  different. But  one  sons  very  ly. Whatever  parameter  you  choose. If  you  have  infinite  number  of  the  t  sample, the  final  result  will  be  exactly  the  same, will  be  the  ground  tools. This  ground  to  or different  ways,  different  parameter, you  can  get  exactly  same  estimate  or  PDF. This  is  a  condition, suppose  we  have infinite  number  of  the  20  samples. You  can  have  whatever  you want  in  the  20  samples. Then  the  result  of  C. Now  here  we  will  even  for another  distribution for  this  quant  s  distribution, it  also  show  different  results  if you  choose  different  sides  of  this  kernel. Even  if  you  choose  a  gain  function, you  can  choose  the  gain  function very  narrow  flat. The  result  will  somehow  totally  different. Now,  this  one  sue  in  two  dimensional  case. If  we  have  only  one  twining  samples. Then  we  use  a  passion  window  approach, the  continuous  PDF  value  could  be  very sharp  in  passe  or  very  flat  blop. Now,  if  we  have more  twining  datas,  of  course, the  s  is  the  sum  of  many  continuous  fundings. Center  at  each  training  data. But  if  you  choose  a  very  narrow  guin, it  can  be  five  peak  for  five  training  data, and  all  these  five  peaks  can  merge  to a  maze  number  of  the  peaks  if  you increase  of  the  size  of  the  kernel. We  can  very  easily  to  imagine  it. Now,  if  you  use  this  gaussian  function  very, very  flat,  almost  constantly  it's  possible, then  you  estimate  the  PDF  is  also  very  flat, just  a  single  peak, and  even  this  single  peak is  a  very  flat  peak. This  problem  in  the  machine learning  because  it's  the  inverse  problem. From  the  single  processing, we  have  the  output,  we  want to  inverse  what  is  the  input. Then  we  have  a  lot  of  the  uncertainties. Now,  but  the  basic principles  to  estimate  PDF, we  only  use  a  very  simple  one. K  over. K  is  the  number  of the  twining  data  inside  of  your  kernel, n  is  a  total  number  of  the  twining  data. V  is  the  size  of  this  kernel. Somehow,  like  the  principles, Now,  we  use  the  parson  window  approach. This  approach  means  that  we  fix  is a  tube  a  window  or square  or  a  galcin,  with  fixed  size. Then  we  count  how  many point  inside  of  that,  how  many  outside. Of  course,  if  we  a  goal, we  cannot  see  inside  outside, but  we  can  still  see  the  tine  sample, far  away  from  the  center or  close  to  the  center. We  fix  the  kernel, fix  this  way  and  count the  number  of  the  20  sample inside  and  outside. Now,  then  obviously  we  can  see  that  y we  fix  this  way  to  count  the  key. We  can  also  have  a  large  to  get  this  result. We  fix  the  key, but  we  compute  what  is the  volume  that  comp  this  key  20  samples. Of  course,  this  is  also  possible. F  example  here. Show  that  the  dot  show all  the  twine  sample  in  two  dimensional  case. If  we  have  such  set  of  the  tine  sample. For  whatever  value  of  the  X, we  want  to  use this  formula  to  compute  the  density. If  we  choose  this  case,  five, we  just  take  the  nest five  training  data  merest  to  this g.  Then  we  can  compute what  is  the  area that  can  contain  this  five  point. Then  we  get  this  way. So  we  compute  this  P. Then  if  this  X  at a  different  position  to contain  same  five  training  data, the  R  are  different, for  example,  if  this  x  is  here. To  contain  the  five  training  sample, we  need  a  larger  area. Larger  r,  right? We  have  a  way  to  get  this  result, we  fix  the  key, then  to  compute  what  is the  way  it  can  contain  this  k  training  data. Sorry. This  method  is  k  nest  enable  estimation. We  learn  our  continuous  function based  on  fix  the  key, then  compute  what  is  the  size  of  the  kernel. That  can  contain  this k.  This  is  also  very  straightforward. Then  we  will  use  this  approach, what  is  the  estimated  result. Although  we  can  compute  what  is  the, not  fix  the  size  of  the  kernel. The  kernel  size  is  the  function  of  the  k, but  we  still  need  to  choose  what  is  this k.  Given  lumber  of  the  training  data, we  can  choose  K  one, two,  three,  four,  and  so  on. If  you  choose  different  k, then  the  result  will  be  also  different. Of  course,  the  cannot  choose  y. If  you  choose  y,  then  e  has  a  problem. If  you  choose,  then the  x  equals  to  a  training  data, then  the  V  will  be  close  to  zero. Then  it  will  be  infinite, the  value  will  be  infinite. Now,  if  you  choose  the  case, not  that  one,  if  the  training  data, there's  no  two  training  data  are  identical, then  the  value  is  always  finite because  the  v  is  not  zero. But  anyway,  if  you choose  different  this  k  value, the  result  will  be  also  different. Similarly,  for infinite  number  of  the  chine  data, for  what  if  you  choose  this,  not  whatever, if  you  choose  also  a  very  large  k, then  the  result  will  be  almost  the  same. Now,  here,  further  show examples  in  one  dimensional  case. This  start  is  the  value  of the  training  data  in  one  dimensional  case. Then  this  two  continuous  curve is  n  PDF  based  on  K. This  red  curve  is. We  take  kx  three. This  black  curve  is  we  take  k  x  to  five. Now,  obviously,  if  we take  this  k  value  larger, then  the  estimated  PDF  will  be  flat. If  K  is  smaller, the  estimated  PDF  will  be  more  peaks. Similar  to  fix  a. If  we  choose  small  way  or  large  way. Now,  although  this  KN  ne  approach  compare  to the  Pattern  window  approach  is not  as  good  as  the  pattern  window  approach, use  the  gain  kernel, because  gain  kernel  is  very  smooth. We  can  get  a  very  nice  result. For  this  K  nena  approach, we  don't  use  any  nice  continuous  functions. We  just  use  this  k. This  peak  is  also  such  of  the  shape. It  is  not  very  smooth. Here  it  is  not  differentiable. This  point  is  not  differentiable, different  from  the  gals. This  k  mesna  in general  is  not  as good  as  the  pattern  window  approach. But  this  key  nest  neighbor  approach can  produce  a  very  good  result. This  is  another  example. I  just  ignore  it, can  derive  a  very  important  class  fy. From  the  key  nest  neighbor  approach to  estimate  the  PDF, we  can  We  can dive  the  formula  of  the  K  met  cross  fh. That  means  from  this  K  M  approach, we  can  use  this  approach  to directly  estimate  the  apostle  probability, not  the  cross  conditional  probability. Here,  why  from  this  enable  approach, we  can  directly  utilize  it to  compute  or  estimate  postural  probability. We  don't  need  first  to  get the  class  conditional probability  and  then  pile, and  then  the  mixture  probability  to  get to  compute  app  we  can  directly  compute  it. If  we  can  d  estimate the  postural  probability, then  we  can  directly  use it  for  the  classification. After  break,  we  further  study this  derived  so  called  enable  classifie. Okay.  15  minutes  of  break  today. We  can  assume  our  class. Now,  how  can  we  from the  est  approach  to estimate  the  PDF  to  derive the  est  labor  class  fhere  B  you  can  ignore this  formula  in  this  black  cn because  give  some? You  just  show  the  ss  in  this  formula. Now  suppose  we  have unt  samples  come  from  all  classes. We  first  use  all  training  data  for whatever  class  to  arn  the  PDF. Then  this  PDF  is a  mixture  because  it  contains the  distribution of  all  training  data  include  all  class. We  apply  the  Kes  approach to  estimate  the  PDF  of the  mixture  X  by  Kes  approach. We  take  the  K.  For  all  X, we  spend  the  Ks  training  data, and  then  we  can  use  this  one  to  compute  what is  the  PDF  of  all  training  data. Now,  we  just  change  this  formula  into  use the  K  and  I  only for  the  training  data  of  class  I. K  I  training  data  from  the  class  I, then  the  total  number of  the  turning  class  I  is n.  Then  we  can gate  the  class  conditional  PDF. The  Pyle  probabil  as  I  mentioned  that  is  just n  n  is  the  number of  the  training  data  of  class  I. Now,  if  we  have  this  p  probability, class  conditional  PDF  and  the  mixture  PDF, we  can  very  easily  to gate  what  is  poster  probability. Hoster  D  by  change  is a  P  omega  times  p  x and  classmga  over  the  p  X. This  three  value  we  can  estimate. So  we  put  the  head. Means  the  head  used to  indicate  the  estimated  value, use  this  eo  approach here,  these  three  expresions. Then  we  get  the  pre  multiply by  the  class  conditional  PDF  divide  by  Px. Then  we  can  very  easily  get, it  is  a  K  over. So  K  over  K  is  our  estimate  of a  post  probability  of  class  I  Omega, Apost  probil  of  the  class Omega  I  is  K  over  K, where  K  is  number of  the  training  data  of  class I  among  ku  K  training  data  over  all  class. If  we  use  this  apo  pro for  the  classification, for  all  different  class, which  I  produce  note  KI, then  this  class  has  a  post  proba, than  all  other  class. Obviously,  we  can  directly  use  it as  the  c  classification. This  class  is  pretty  simple. Given  ending  input  X, We  find  the  K  mere  training  datas. It  may  come  from  many  different  class, but  we  find  K  mere  training  datas. That  means  k  training  data, meres  to  your  input. Then  in  this  K  meres training  data  meres  to  the  input  x, we  say  which  class has  not  just  a  number  of the  training  data  among  this  k. Then  we  classify  the  input  x  into this  cross  I  that  has  not  just  the  tiny  data. This  is  the  merest  neb  crossph. The  K  nest  nal  crossphere,  from  here, we  can  see  it  is  come  from the  K  nest  neb  approach  to  estimate  the  PDF. We  can  date  the  rest  neighbor  crossp. Now  the  process  is similar  to  here.  Similar  to  here. If  we  suppose  we choose  the  s  or  class  is  five. Then  all  this  t  is  all  training  data. I  may  come  from  different  class. If  we  choose  five, then  after  we  receive this  cs  is  unknown  data. Then  we  find  the  five  twining  data  nest to  this  input. Among  these  520  data, maybe  class  two  has  320  data. Class  M  has  220  data. Then  we  classify  this  input  into  class  two. This  is  the  five  merest  neighbor  class  fa. Then  of  course  we  can  choose this  k  differently. We  can  have  the  five  nest  neighbor  class  f, three  nears  neighbor  class  f, or  nine  nest  neighbor  class  and  so  on. Of  course,  how  to  choose  this  k, depends  on  the  total  number of  the  tinging  data  you  have. Also  depends  on,  you  want  to  have more  smooth  results  or  more  specific  result. Now,  if  we  choose  this  k  is  one, it  is  still  workable. If  we  choose  this  k  is  one, then  we  have  the  so  called first  merest  neighbor  claspeel. That  means  given  any  input  data  X. We  just  find  the  merest  sample  to  the  input. This  met  sample  belong  to  which  class, then  we  classify  the input  data  into  which  class. This  is  a  k  equals  to  one. We  have  the  first  merest  neighbor  claspe. Now,  here  we  will  show  class  boundary  of the  first  Mm  class  as  the  example  show  here. Suppose  all  these  dot  are  ting  data. I  come  from  the  ting  data of  the  two  different  class. The  black  dot  is  the  t  data  of  one  class, d  dot  is  20  data  of  a  are  class. Now,  if  we  apply  the  first  nest  nego  classp, then  this  first  nest  nebal  classp  will  form the  class  boundary  in the  input  space  X  one  and  X  two. Suppose  this  is  two  dimensional  data. By  this  sines  between the  two  different  brightness  of  the  region. The  solid  nine  separate  the  space into  white  and  this  shaded  area is  a  class  boundary. Because  this  is  pretty  near, the  class  boundary  of the  first  nest  neo  class  fear  is  somehow  to separate  the  two  nearest  training  data from  the  two  class. Of  course,  we  have  many  nine. This  page  plot  May  9 between  each  pile  of  the  training  data, we  plot  ange  to  cause  the  center  of  the  link, this  one  to  plot  nine, but  some  nine  is  not class  boundary  because  this nine  is  separate  the  two  sample from  the  same  class. Now  the  nine  to  separate the  two  nest  sample  of two  different  class  will form  a  class  boundary. From  this  class  boundary, we  see  what  is  the  decision  region? The  white  color  is the  decision  region  of  the  black  class. The  shaded  region  is the  decision  region  for  this  read  class. From  here  we  see,  although the  first  nest  neighbor  class is  extremely  simple. We  don't  need  the  training. We  only  need  a  set  of  the  training  data. We  can  use  it  for  the  classification. For  input  data  we  received, we  just  find the  nest  training  sample  to  this  input. Then  we  complete  our  classification. It  is  extremely  simple. But  this  extremely  simple  crossphere is  not  a  linear  crossphere. It  is  a  very  highly  non  linear  crosphere. This  shape,  the  crust  boundary, although  it  is  a  piece  wise  linear, but  the  whole  crust  boundary can  form  a  very  complicated  shape. It  is  a  very  highly  near  for the  whole  of  the  crust  boundary to  separate  the  two  class. It  is  not  a  linear  crosphere. It  is  a  very  highly  non  linear  crossphere. Now,  before  the  deep  learning, this  first  nears  neighbor  class, Neres  neighbor  classf  is  widely  used in  the  practice  because  of  three  reasons. First,  it  is  extremely  simple. We  don't  need  the  training. Secondly,  in  many  years  ago,  usually, the  data  size  is  very  small, for  whatever  application,  the  training  data, we  have  only  several  several hundreds  of  the  training  data. It  is  possible  we  can  compute  the  distance between  input  to  each  of  the  training  data. Third  reason  is  more  important  is although  the  first  and  Marsal  clasphe is  extremely  simple, but  the  performance  is  not  so  bad. Because  from  here,  we  can  say  it  can  form a  very  complex  decision  boundary. The  performance  is  also  not  so  bad. This  curve  will  show  the  performance  of the  first  and  Ms  clasp  compile to  the  optimal  clasph. This  is  a  theoretical  curve. That  means  the  theory  computed, not  from  the  computed  a  set  of  the  data. Theoretical  computed. This  thetic  value  of the  performance  is  only  possible. We  can  gate  this  thetic  value  and assumption  we  have infinite  number  of  the  training  data. N  assumption, suppose  we  have  infinite  of  the  twining  data, then  the  performance  of the  first  nest  or  clasphere, or  the  error  rate  is this  curve  against  the  error  rate of  the  bayes  clasp, the  MAP  clasp,  or  the best  clasphe,  or  ultimo  clasphe. The  difference  is  only  this  area. Now,  this  area  is  obviously  the  rate  of the  first  nest  neo  clasper  is  higher than  the  base  optimal  clasphe, but  it  is  far  lower than  twice  of  the  error  rate of  the  base  clasp. I  below  the  twice  two  times. Why  it  is  a  curve. Because  for  many different  classification  problem, even  the  optimal  clasper has  different  O  rate. The  optimal  clash,  the  best  clasph, is  the  best  clash, but  if  the  problem  is  a  two  class, the  data  is  fully  overlapped. Then  even  the  best  clasper  has  large  O  rate. If  the  problem  is  a  two  class  is  separated, then  the  best  clasp  can produce  Z  O  rate.  Right? Now,  if  this  is  two  class, the  training  data,  not  training  data, the  whole  population  of  the  two  class  are fully  overlapped,  totally  overlapped. That  means  even  the  best  clasphe  will  produce the  highest  weight,  50%  or  0.5. This  is  why  in  this  curve, the  hos  axis  means the  value  of  the  best  classph. The  value  of  the  best  clasphere is  indicated  by  this  P  star, it  is  this  horns  nine. This  street  nine  means the  arrow  rate  equals  to  the  best  clasphe. Well,  for  rate  of  the  beast  clasphe, the  first  and  nearest  neighbor clasphe  is  this  value. The  vertical  value  is the  error  rate  of  the  first  est  clasphe. The  difference  is  this  sens  for  example, for  this  error  rate of  the  beast  clasph  is  this  value. The  first  est  neighbor  clasph  is  this  value. It  is  smaller  than two  times  of  the  error  rate of  the  beast  clasphe, is  this  street  ne. But  the  case  are  different  from the  different  error  rate for  different  problem. Right?  Now,  for  example, why  this  here,  the  best  clasphe, and  the  first  nees  clasph, the  rut  are  same. Because  the  rot  are  zero. If  the  two  class  are  fly  separated  for whatever  classp  the  rota,  zero,  right? They  are  seeing  if  the  two  class are  very  well  separated. Similarly,  the  first  nest  bor  clasp, rate  are  same  as  the  base  clasph for  highest  error  rate. That  means,  for  example, for  two,  number  of  the  class  is  two, if  two  class  are  fully  overlapped, whatever  decision  you  use, the  error  rate  are  50  50. For  two  class,  then  c  is  two, two  minus  one  is  y  over  two  is  0.5. If  it  is  a  ten  class, then  it  is  0.9,  the  er  rate  is  0.9. Be  ten  class  are exactly  almost  the  same the  distribution  are  exactly  the  same. Given  data  you  want  to Predict  it  into  one  of  the  ten  class, then  the  possible  probability  it is  correct  is  only  one  over t.  Then  probability  it  is  one, is  9/10,  so  it's  a  ten  -1/100  0.9. Is  highest  rate  is  here. Now,  if  the  different  class are  fully  overlapped, of  course,  the  difference  of this  two  rate  are  same. This  is  based  on  that, we  understand  why  this  curve. This  street  nine  means  we use  the  best  clasper. Anyway,  this  curve  just  show the  performance  of  the first  and  nest  neighbor  clasphe, although  the  rate  is  larger  than the  best  clash  optimal  clsphe  or AP  z  but  it  is  not  so  bad. It  is  far  nest  than twice  two  times  of the  rate  of  the  best  clasp. But  again,  this  is  a  theoretical  result. We  derive  this  result  and  assumption, we  have  infinite  number  of  the  chin  data. Otherwise,  if  we  have  finite number  of  the  chine  data, we  cannot  derive  the  theoretical  result. In  the  practice,  if  the  number  of the  training  data  is  final,  is  small, maybe  the  first  nest  or  class can  have  rate  much larger  than  the  best  class. But  we  cannot  figure out  what  is  the  theoretical  value. This  is  to  elaborate the  meaning  of  this  grass. Now,  the  next  graph  will show  how  is  this  nears  naval  class? We  take  different  value  of  the  K. We  can  choose  the  first  nest  naval  class, or  three  nears  naval  class  f, or  seven  and  so  on. What  is  how  to  compare the  performance  of  this different  nest  naval  class. This  will  show  in  this  many  different  curves. Also  against different  difficulty  of  the  problem. For  some  application, the  rate  can  be very  small  for  some  application, the  rate  can  be  very  large. This  is  for  two  class  problem. For  two  class  problem, the  highest  rate  can  only  be  0.5. Because  if  highest  rate  is  two  class, the  distribution  are  fully  identical  overlap. You  get  whatever  t  so, you  always  50  are  correct,  50. Percent  ra. The  highest  rate  for two  class  problem  is  only  0.5. Now,  again,  this  stree  nine  is  the  biet  rate means  the  error  rate  of  the  best  clasphe. Then  this  curve  is the  first  and  nest  able  clasphe. This  theoretical  result. Again,  it  is  assumption. We  have  infinite  number  of  the  chin  data. We  have  infinite  number  of  chin  data, then  we  can  very  easy  to understand  if  we  increase  the  k, then  the  error  rate  will decrease,  always  decrease. The  nears  neo  clasp  will  be much  better  than  first  class, five  better  than  three  and  so  increase  the  k, the  error  rate  always to  because  we  have infinite  number  of  the  chine  data. At  the  end,  the  K  neor clash  if  we  choose  the  fal  marge  of  the  k, it  can  be  almost  as the  beast  classp  the  error  rate of  the  beast  clasphe. But  again,  all  this  curve  is  for theoretical  results  and  assumption we  have  infinite  number  of  training  data. Although  you  will  show that  S  nest  ne  clasph  or visibly  better  than  first  et  ne  clasphe. But  for  the  practical  case, if  we  have  small  number  of  the  twining  data, it  could  be  s  nest  neb  clasph, w  will  be  worse  than  first  one. For  example,  if  we  only  have 1020  data  or  several  tens  of  training  data. Most  likely,  if  you  take  three could  be  worse  than  first  nest  net. But  to  see  comparison,  we  have  no  choice, we  must  use  condition or  have  infinite  number  of  training  data. Now,  next  one,  we're study  a  lager  approach  is called  parametric  approach because  we  can  see  that. Although  we  can  use the  discrete  training  data to  arn  a  continuous  PDF. But  if  we  choose  different  parameter  to do  such  learning  or  estimation, the  result  could  be  largely  different. Now,  this  problem  will  then  will  be lighter  if  we  know we  have  the  prior  knowledge, the  PDF  is  some  kind  of  functions. For  example,  if  we  know  the  PDF  is  a  gain, or  some  uniform  or  sn  placing. If  we  know  the  PDF is  such  kind  of  the  functions. We  but  we  don't  know  what  is the  parameter  of  this  mathematic  functions. Then  we  can  just  use the  training  data  to  estimate the  parameter  of  a  certain  functions. This  approach  is  called parametc  approach  or  Pamet  method. Because  we  use  the  ting  data only  estimate  the  parameter of  known  function  or  assumed  function. This  will  make  the  estimated result  much  more  stable. For  different  number  of  the  ting  data, the  results  are  different, but  the  difference  are  much smaller  than  non  parametic  approach. Now  here,  we  can  estimate the  parametic  approach  of some  mathematic  functions, such  as  the  gucing,  not  passing  uniform. But  we  can  also  use the  training  leer  to  estimate  the  parameter of  some  model,  not  necessary. I  must  be  a  mathematical  functions, for  example, or  the  ne  network  and the  deep  learning  is belong  to  a  parametic  approach. A  network  structure  will form  function  from  input  to  output. This  structure  of  the  function  is  fixed. We  only  use  the  training  data  to estimate  the  parameter  in  this  model. All  this  deep  network is  belong  to  this  parametric  method. Okay.  But  here  we  study  we  first  the  study, we  use  the  trading  data  to  estimate the  parameter  of  a  mathematical  function, not  a  network  structure. NAT  in  the  new  network, we  will  study  the  neural  network, seeing  a  transformer. All  of  them  belong  to  a  parametric  approach. Here,  we  study  a  parametic  approach  to estimate  the  parameter  of a  certain  mathematical  functions. We  will  start  from  the  simple  gauc  functions. Suppose  the  PDF  is  gu, but  we  don't  know  what  is  the  mean  vector, what  is  the  coherence  matrix of  the  gaussian  function. Then  we  need  to  use the  training  data  to  estimate the  gaussian  function  with specific  men  vector  and  cons  matrix. Be  a  gaussian  PDF  are  uniquely specified  by  men  vector  and  cons  matrix. This  is  the  only  parameter for  the  gaussian  functions. Now,  how  to  estimate the  parameter  based  on based  on  the  training  data. To  understand  that,  we  give a  very  simple  example to  formulate  what  is the  idea  to  estimate  the  parameter. So  here,  this  example suppose  we  have  the  training  data  is  this red.in  one  dimensional  case  to  visualize  it. In  one  dimensional  case. The  different  position  of this  dot  indicated different  training  samples. This  is  all  we  have. We  have  such  kind of  asset  of  the  training  data, and  we  assume  the  PDF  is g  and  even  we  assume  we already  know  or  already estimate  the  vis  or standard  deviation  of  the  gusing. But  we  don't  know  what  is  the  mean  of the  gal  or  the  center  of  the  gal, or  the  location  of  the  galcu. We  need  to  utilize this  training  data  to estimate  what  is  the  mean  of the  galcu  functions  we already  know  the  standard  deviation of  the  gaussian  function. Because  by  simplifying  it, we  can  see  visibly,  what  is  the  idea, a  reasonable  way,  what  is  the  reasonable  way to  estimate  a  parameter from  the  training  data,  right? Now,  under  such  assumption, what  we  have,  this  dot, the  value,  and  a  gals  c  galcan  PTA we  seem  standard  deviation. But  we  don't  know  what  is the  position  of  the  center  of  this  gal. We  need  to  use  the  value of  this  red  thought  to learn  what  is  the  center of  this  different  gals. Now  here,  so  we  plot  one, two,  three,  four,  four, we  plot  a  PDF  with four  different  centers or  four  different  gals. Then  intuit  from  this  training  data, which  g  PDF  so  be  more  results, the  net  result  of  this  training  data. More  Ncin  First  of  all, this  is  what  we  have  training  data. Then  the  gain  function be  the  center  of the  gausin  function  should be  the  fourth  curve. If  you  choose  this  fourth  one. Obviously  you  don't  have  any  sens. Because  this  is  somehow  reasonable. Why  unreasonable. Because  our  training  data  here. We  have  a  dense  point  here. Here,  we  don't  have  the  any  point. Why  the  gausin  has higher  density  at  this  value, but  very  now  density. This  curve,  the  value of  the  curve  means  the  density. Why  the  probable  density  is  at  this  area. Obviously  the  false  one  is  unreasonable. Right?  Now,  if  we very  simply  exclude  this  one, then  which  one  is  more  likening? Obviously,  it  appears  to  be maybe  the  sic  one  is  more  likely. Because  it  is  a  reasonable  for  example, for  the  value  of  the  X, if  we  have  more  training  data, that  means  the  density  of the  distribution  should  be  higher  value. For  the  value  of  the  X, if  we  have  number  of  the  training  data, that  means  the  density  value should  be  sm,  right? This  is  very  intuitive. I  believe  all  of  us  understand  that. Then  what  does  it  mean? Mathematically.  If  we  have  some  idea, we  need  to  convert  our  idea  into mathematics  so  that  the  machine or  computer  can  compute  it. What  is  this  idea?  If  we have  more  training  data, it  means  has  higher  density. Small  number  of  the  training  data has  lower  density? This  is  a  way  to  get  the  PDF. That  means  we  met  our  PDF. Make  all  this  training  data together  has  highest  probability. If  we  choose  the  PDF  is  high, then  the  probability  of the  probability  of  our  training  data is  very  small. If  we  choose  the  second  curve, then  the  probability  of the  training  data  will  be  much higher  than  the  probability  of the  training  data  if  we  use  the  fourth  curve. So  it  is  pretty  car. We  should  estimate  the  parameter of  the  PDF  so that  the  occurrence  of all  training  data  is  maximum  value. This  idea  is  still  very  straightforward. We  figure  out  that  given a  set  of  the  training  data, we  should  a  parameter  of  the  PDF  so  that the  joint  probability  of all  training  data  has  maximum  value. Now,  what  is  the  joint  probability of  all  training  data? Suppose  we  know  the  probability of  a  single  training  data  P  x k.  Suppose  we  know  probability of  one  training  data of  each  of  the  ting  data. Then  the  joint  probability  of  the  20  data  is a  multiplication  of  all  this  probability of  single  training  data. Because  all  training  data should  be  independent. Because  we  connect  the  training data  independently. 120  data  are  not dependent  on  other  training  data. We  know  in  the  probability, the  ind  the  probability of  the  independent  event. The  joint  probability  is  a  multification, of  the  probability  of  each  event. It  is  pretty  clear  the  probability  of all  training  data  set  D  occur. This  probability  is  just  multiplication of  the  probability  of  each  training  samples. Now,  we  call  this  probability of  training  dataset, the  probability  of  the whole  training  data  set. We  call  it  a  likelihood of  the  parameter  against  the  training  data. Just  in  the  literature, the  name  is  called  likelihood. We  also  understand  that likelihood  means  possibility. The  possibility  or  the  probability  of this  parameter  if  we have  this  set  of  the  training  data. It  is  a  joint  probability  of  or training  samples  and  different  parameter. We  should  choose  this  parameter, this  joint  probability, or  this  likelihood  maximum. If  we  estimate  or  none the  parameter  based  on  the  training  data  by maximize  this  joint  probability because  this  joint  probability  is  likelihood. This  approach  is  called maximum  likelihood  method, or  maximum  likelihood  estimation. This  is  a  very  famous  principle widely  used  in  many  area. Maximum  likelihood  estimation. Just  maximize  the  joint  probability  of all  your  training  data to  get  what  is  a  prime. Now,  the  next  step  is  how  to  do  it. This  is  the  optimization  problem. Now  here  we  need  to  maximize  function, the  value  of  the  function  of  the  parameter. Now  this  function  is the  multiplication  of  many  functions. Of  course,  although  the  function  format are  same  but  at  a different  at  a  different  position at  the  value  of  the  training  data. We  have  main  functions  multiply  together. You  will  produce  a  very highly  non  linear  functions. But  we  can  simplify  it. Because  we  get  to the  value  of  this  function is  to  try  to  find  the  venue. It  has  max  value against  the  different  prime  Sta. We  know  that  gsm  function is  a  monotonically  increase  functions. If  we  maximize  the  githm of  the  training  data, it  also  maximize  the  noglism  of  the  function, it  also  maximize  the  function itself  because  the  noncre  function is  a  monotonically  increase. If  we  find  the  prime  cata, it  maximize  the  knowing  of  the  PD. Then  this  data  also maximize  the  value  of  the  PD. An  value,  different  value. If  it  gloom  is  marge, then  the  value  itself  must be  larger  the  others. This  is  precar. We  can  try  to  maximize the  gsm  of  this  likelihood. Because  the  likelihood  is a  multiplication  of  meaning  functions. If  we  take  the  gm, then  the  multiplication  becomes  to  summation. It  greatly  reduces the  complexity  of  the  functions. It  is  pretty  clear  that  gorithm  of a  sum  is  equal  to some  of  the  logism  of  each  item, or  the  gism  of  the  multiplication is  equal  to  some  of  the  logosm  of  each  items. We  can  greatly  simplify  the  problem. Again,  if  the  PDF is  some  of  the  exposure  function, then  the  gem  will  only capture  the  index  of  the  exposure  function. It  will  further  simplify  the  problem. Here,  what  we  need  to  do  is  just maximize  the  githm  of the  likelihood  of  the  training  data. Well,  it  will  convert  the  multiplication  into the  summation  of  the  probae of  each  training  sample. The  gim  of  the  probabe of  each  training  sample. Now,  after  we  do  such  simplification, how  to  solve  this  optimization  problem? In  the  calculus,  it  is  a  common  way. We  take  the  gradient  of  this  functions and  then  this  gradients of  this  functions  equals  to  zero. Then  it  is  a  maximum  value. Here  again,  we  take the  gradient  of the  logarithm  of  the  likelihood, or  the  probability  of joint  probability  of  all  training  data. It  equals  to  zero. Then  solve  this  equation, we  can  find  what  parameter, we  satisfy  this  equation. Then  this  parameter,  we maximize  the  joint  probability of  the  training  data. Now,  this  probability  of the  whole  t  data is  multiplication  of  each  training  sample. After  take  the  gorihm  is  the  sum, then  the  gradient  of the  sum  is  equal  to some  of  the  gradient  of  each  item. We  get  the  next  equations. From  here,  we  can  see  we  just  have  some of  gradient  of  many  terms, each  term  is  one  t  samples. Now,  the  gradient  means we  need  to  do  a  differentiation  of this  function  against each  component  of  this  vector. Be  parameter  we  may  have  many  parameter. The  gradient  against  all  parameter  means the  differentiation  against each  of  this  parameter. The  equals  to  zero, that  means the  differentiation  of  this  function over  each  of  the  parameter  equals  to  zero. In  principle,  we  can  solve  the  problem. If  we  have  for  example, if  we  have  ten  different  parameters, then  we  have  ten  different  equations because  it's  a  differentiation against  each  parameter. We  have  ten  equations  to  solve  ten  unknowns. Basically,  it  is  possible. If  this  equation  is  linear  equation, we  can  very  easily  to  get  the  solution. Here,  we  show  an  example  if suppose  the  PDF  is  a  gazing. If  for  PDF, then  we  can  get  what  is  a  logarithm. Such  the  exposure  function, we  take  the,  then  we  can  get  this  exposure. Now,  from  this  expression, we  can  see  we  can  further  get the  result  of  the  maximum  hold  estimate. To  show  the  example, we  first  use  a  very  simple  case. Suppose  this  is  for  one  dimensional  case. X  is  just  one  variable. Then  for  one  dimensional  gale  function, the  parameter  is  only  mean  and the  vari  all  square of  the  standard  diviation. Here,  this  is  the one  dimensional  gaussian  functions. Gas  functions  in one  dimensional  gaussian  functions. It  is  only  specified  by  the  mean and  the  variance  or  the  standard  division. We  only  have  two  parameters. In  one  dimensional  case, we  can  very  easily  to  figure  out  the  no  grim of  one  dimensional  gaussian function  is  this  expression. Now,  we  take  the  gradient  of this  function  against the  parameter  parameters. We  need  the  d  differentiation of  this  function  against  the  u, M,  we  get  this  expression, against  the  sigma  square, then  we  get  this  expression. You  can  work  out  each  easy. Differentiation  against  the  u. This  one  is  zero. This  one  square  disappear. So  it  is  x  minus  u. This  two  and  this  two  become  to  one. Let's  just  give  you  example. This  the  differentiation  of  this  expression against  the.  Then  we  get  this. Similarly,  against  the  sigma  square, then  we  can  get  this  expression. Now  nate  this  two  expression  both  x  to  zero. Then  we  have  two  equation to  solve  two  unknowns. Then  it  is  a  possible  from these  two  equations  equals differentiation  against  Mu  x  to  zero, differentiation  against  sca  square  x  to  zero. We  can  very  easily  to  solve  what  is the  result  of  this  me  and  the  scma  square. Of  course,  this  result, u  is  estimated  by  untraining  datas. We  use  the  head  indicate  it  is an  estimate  of  the  estimate of  the  sigma  square. From  this  result,  we  can  see that  the  expression  shows  that  the  result is  our  common  sense  to compute  the  mean  and  to  compute  the  variance. This  is  a  common  sense. But  from  here  we  s  derive  or  prove  that  this, the  average  of  all  training  data  is the  maximum  likelihood  estimate of  the  center  of  a  gas  PDF. This  expression,  the  age  of  the  x  minus its  mean  square  is the  maximum  estimation  of the  variance  of  a  dosing  PDF. We  provide  a  sic  support. Why  we  should  use  this  expression  to compute  the  variance  given  a  set  of  the  data. Why  we  call  the  average  of  a  set  of  the  data, call  it  as  the  center  of  the  data. Because  it's  the  center  of  the  Gain  PDF. Is  the  estimate  of the  center  of  the  Gaucin  PDF. These  two  formula  common  sense  here, we  derive  them  from  the  maximum  likelihood estimate  to  estimate  the  parameter of  the  gausin  PDF. Now,  this,  we  gate  each  details of  this  derivation  to  gate the  mean  and  the  varum. We  can  also  use  the  same  approach  to extend  it  into  a  high  dimensional  case. Even  for  high  dimensional  case, the  gain  PDF  becomes more  complicated  because  we have  the  mean  and the  variance  becomes  to  a  covers  mitrix. Now,  if  you  use  the  same  procedure, you  will  get  this  result. Although  you  need  more  steps, more  complicated, but  the  principle  are  exactly  the  same. We  can  get  this  two  results. The  mean  vector  is also  average  of  all  training  data. The  coins  matrix  is  average  of a  row  vector  multiplied  by  um ect.  It  is  a  matrix. This  is  why  this  is  also a  dfolation  of  the  covariance  matrix, or  data  co  matrix. Given  a  set  of  the  data, what  is  the  matrix  of  data? This  is  a  dfation  of  data  conce  matrix. It  is  a  maximum  likelihood  estimation of  coin  matrix  of  a  gausin  PDF. Now,  this  is  a  param  approach to  this  parameter. We  call  although transitional  approach  is  called  estimation. But  estimation  is  same as  the  machine  learning. Why  we  call  it  a  machine  learning? Because  even  in  the  new  network, in  many  other  approach  is  also the  training  data  to some  parameter  of  a  model. A  model  is  some  of  mathematic  functions. In  fact,  they  are  the  same. Also,  this  as  I  emphasized  at  the  beginning. For  all  random  variable. If  we  use  the  data to  try  to  do  some  learning  machine  learning. To  learn  the  knowledge of  this  random  variable. Based  on  the  knowledge of  this  random  variable, after  we  receive  one  example of  this  random  variable, we  can  use  this  knowledge to  do  the  prediction. This  is  all  this  machine  learning. This  one,  but  use  a  set  of  data  to learn  some  characterize  random  variable, the  PDF  is  full  information. There's  no  other  information  more  than  PDF. This  is  why  here,  although it's  a  very  traditional  approach, we  learn  how  to  arn  the  fully  information  of a  random  variable  given random  vector  could  be given  asset  of  the  training  data. Now,  this  is  a  theoretic approach,  we  study  that, but  in  the  practice, it  may  also  still  very  difficult. For  example,  for  the  parametric  approach, the  model  may  not  be  a  guin. We  use  a  new  network  to  form  a  model. Then  to  the  parameter. Also  for  the  non  parmeal  approach. It  is  very  difficult  to  really estimate  to  learn the  ground  tools  of  the  PDF. Because  we  know  that,  if  we chose  different  ways  of  the  kernel, different  nest  approach, the  machine  learning  result could  be  very  different. The  difference  could  be. Then  because  of  this  difficulties. In  the  practice,  the  machine  learning  may not  really un  the  full  information  of  the  PDF. In  the  practice  the  machine  learning, we  only  somehow  to  satisfy our  task  for  the  prediction. Although  it  fully  the  PDF, but  it  is  a  somehow  indirectly  to  the  PDF. But  we  don't  un  exactly  the  value  of  the  PDF. We  directly  target  out what  is  the  result  of  the  prediction. But  theoretically  to  get  the  best  prediction, we  must  know  the  PDF. Use  a  set  of  the  training  data to  un  the  PDF  is  to un  the  complete  information inside  of  your  training  data. But  in  the  practice,  we  have only  a  fight  set  of  the  data, fight  number  of  the  t  data. We  always  cannot  achieve  the  optimum  result, or  the  very  good  result. We  will  somehow  utilize  some  to  directly estimate  something  that  it is  used  in  our  output,  predict  output. Not  necessarily,  we  must  exactly know  what  is  the  PDF  value. For  example,  we  can  have the  north  function  to make  the  difference  in the  output  to  minimize  it. But  really  minimize  the  rate, we  me,  in  fact, in  the  system  itself, we  need  some  of  the  PDF  value. But  we  d  minimize  the  north  in  the  output. It  may  not  necessarily  we  must  get the  exact  value  in  the  PDF. After  today  we  complete our  last  module  of  the  prediction, that  means  the  classification  or  prediction or  to  make  the  final  decision. But  all  this  classification  or  prediction cannot  directly  apply  to  the  row  data. From  the  row  data, we  need  some  pre  processing, we  need  some  feature  extraction. After  we  convert  a  set of  data  into  the  fature, then  the  final  step is  some  of  the  classification. F  next  week  we  will  study some  steps  before  this  final  predictions. We  need  to  convert  that  raw data  into  the  future. We  have  We  can  say  we have  basically  two  different  ways to  convert  the  data  into  the  feature. One  is  called  selection. Given  a  high  dimensional  data, we  select  some  component  as  the  feature. Another  one  is  the  feature  extraction. That  means  we  can  combine different  component  in the  road  data  to  generate  different  features. This  is  called  feature  extraction. The  next  two  week,  we  will first  study  the  feature  selection. First  use  the  road  data  to  generate some  feature  and  then select  the  useful  feature. And  then  the  topic  eight, we  will  study  the  feature  extraction  to combine  all  input  into  different  features. This  feature  section  or extraction  is  extremely  important  because it  plays  a  very  critical  role in  the  whole  system. For  example,  now  the  deeping, then  or  the  transformer. The  most  critical  function  of the  s  and  the  transformer is  the  feature  extraction. Flen  always  produce the  feature  map,  many  feature  map. The  transformer  is  also  transform the  input  token  into  many  transformed  token. I  get  all  these  features  and  then the  final  step  is the  classification  or some  kind  of  the  prediction. Next  week,  we  will  first  study the  hand  feature  and  then based  on  this  hand  feature from  the  road  data, we  do  how  to  select the  best  features  for  next  week. That's  all  for  tonight.  Thank  you.
