Has  broader  meaning  than  computer. We  call  it  a  machine  ing because  we  are  not the  school  of  the  computer  science. We  are  school  of the  electrical  and  electronic  engineering. We  correct  machines. We  call  this  case  machine  ion. My  name  is  Ji  Shi  Dong, I  will  teach  the  first  nine  weeks among  the  13  weeks  of  this  course. I'm  also  the  course coordinator  of  this  course. From  my  name,  you  should  know  I'm  Chinese. I  was  born  and  grown  up  in China  and  my  first  degree  and a  master's  degree  from the  University  of  Electronic Science  and  Technology  of  China in  Tendu  China. After  I  received  the  master, I  went  to  Hamburg  Germany  to  do  my  PhD. Then  after  I  got  my  PhD, I  directly  came  to  Singapore. First,  work  as  a  research  fellow in  ASR  Research  Institute, and  then  join  NTU  as  a  faculty  member in  2004,  then  up  to  now. Okay. For  my  teaching  experience,  in  NTU, I  have  taught  the  first  year  and the  grad  course  computing. In  fact,  it  is  a  C  program  language. The  coding  C  program  language. I  taught  the  second  year  course Synos  and  stems. I  have  taught  the  third  year course  and  the  grad  course, digital  single  process  DSP. I  have  also  taught  the  fourth  year  course, image  processing  and  computer  vision, and  another  course  is called  intelligent  system  design. For  the  graduate  course, I  have  taught  e7401. It  is  a  probability  and a  random  process  several  years  ago. I  have  taught  this  course  over  ten  years, but  now  this  course is  teaching  by  some  other  natures. Then  for  the  graduate  course, I  also  teach  this  one  machine  vision, and  another  one  is image  analysis  and  pattern  recognition, EE  7403. This  is  my  whole  courses I  have  taught  in  NTU. About  research  experience, after  I  came  to  Singapore, my  first  research  project is  fingerprint  recognition. Okay,  you  know  the  fingerprint  recognition, use  the  fingerprint  to identify  the  person's  identity. We  can  use  it  to  access control  and  many  other  applications. This  is  also  belong  to  computer  vision, although  the  simplest  one. Because  fingerprint,  the  pattern  is very  very  clear  the  rigs  and  Ns. Anyway,  my  first  project  research  project in  Singapore  is  a  fingerprint  recognition. After  several  years, then  I  move  to  the  phase  recognition. Also  belong  to  comp  phase  recognition, and  then  move  to a  more  general  compation  research such  as  the  pedestri  detection  or person  detection  to  detect the  pedestri  roads  and  so  on and  other  general  compation  problem, especially  after  the  dele  and  AI, I  will  move  to  more  general  topics. Join  the  wave  of  the  AI. This  was  my  research  expertise. Now,  come  to  our  nature. All  of  you  are  graduate  students, not  the  undergraduate  student. You  study  a  course should  not  be  just  superficial  understanding. Also,  we  are  human  intelligent. But  now  AI,  artificial  intelligent  appears to  be  somehow  even than  our  human  intelligent. But  this  is  not  true.  In  my  opinion. Somebody  even  say  that AI  in  future  will  replace  the  human  and even  somehow  command  the  whole  word of  the  human  world. This  can  never  be  hen. Okay.  For  example,  if  we  see  For  example, Aeropla  fly  so  fast, the  computer  can  compute  so  fast 100  times  thousand  times faster  than  human  bing. But  it  does  not  mean  that  machine  can  be super  human  in  overall. If  you  look  at  the  current  AIC  stem, we  will  see  that  the  AI  can do  the  coding  generate  the  paper, can  write  the  paragraph and  can  do  many  things. It  appears  to  be  super  than  our  human  beings. But  what  is  AI? AI  basically  is  a  memory. A  I  need  a  huge  amount  of  the  data. It  just  memorize  this  data  and interpolate  the  data  into  some  other  things. In  my  opinion,  AI  is  memory  based. Then  how  our  human  can  be  super  than  AI. We  should  show  our  inds  understanding. I  don't  think  AI  can in  das  understanding  something. It  can  do  predict  very  well, it's  just  based  on  interpolation or  extrapolation  of  the  data. Huge  amount  of  the  data. In  terms  of  the  memorized  something, are  we  cannot  compare with  the  com  cannot compute  with  the  AI  model. But  in  terms  of  the  er  especially  the in  Das  understanding. I  don't  think  AI  can  exceed  our  human  beings. Anyway,  this  is  my  opinion. This  is  why  in  my  course, I  will  emphasize  the  in  Das  understanding. That  we  can  never  be  replaced  by  AI  model. Now,  also,  our  human  beings can  create  the  new  technology  new  signs. This  one  is  also  very  hard  to  AI  models. Based  on  what  our  human  beings can  create  new  technology. It's  not  just  based  on our  memories  based  on  you  know a  lot  of  the  many information  and  many  knowledge, then  you  can  create  the  new  technology. We  can  create  new  technology based  on  we  find some  limitations  of  the  current  one. It's  not  just  to  use  the  current  technology. We  must  find  the  limitations  and shortcoms  of  the  current  technology. How  to  find  the  limitation  and the  shortcom  based on  sorry  for  understanding. Not  just  superficial  understanding. This  is  very  critical in  our  higher  never  of  the  study. Because  of  that,  in  whole  course, you  don't  need  to  memorize  ems. In  the  quits  and especially  in  the  final  exam, you  don't  need  to  memorize  some. But  you  need  really understand  the  concept  and  some  method. To  understand  them, in  my  opining,  there's  two  aspects. One  is  to  make the  complex  method  to make  the  complex  technology  intuitive. If  you  can  make  very complex  very  intuitive, a  very  straightforward. Then  you  really  understand  these  complexions. If  you  really  understand some  complex  technologies, you  find  it  is  simple. It  is  straightforward. It  is  very  nature. Then  you  really  understand  it. The  first  step  is  try  to find  the  intuition  of  the  complex  technology. The  intuition  is  very  important, not  the  complex  mathematic  formulas. To  find  the  idea, the  intuition  behind this  complex  technologies. This  is  one  aspect. Another  aspect  is  to  go  deep inside  to  find  very  critical  ones. I  make  role  in  many  many  different  things. To  find  what  is  a  critical  one, I  make  the  major  role.  Okay. I  know  some  of  you may  not  have  the  background  of tub  E  may  not  have the  background  of  the  signals  and  systems. I  believe  I  hope  for  this  student, I  will  help  you  to  find the  intuition  of  many  complex  methods. Find  the  idea  or  intuition, that  help  you  really  understand. For  those  students,  you already  have  the  same  courses, such  as  image  processing,  machine  learning, and  some  very  closed  courses. I  hope  I  can  help you  to understand  the  insight  of  the  technologies. That  means  to  help  you see  something  invisible,  otherwise. That  mean  to  help  you  think  about  something, you  never  thought  about  that. But  in  fact,  it  is  very,  very  important. This  is  a  role  of  a  nature. I  will  not  just  spo feeding  your  known  edge  to memorize  the  known  age  is not  is  not  difficult. You  can  also  very  easily get  the  knowledge  from the  Internet  from  the  Google  search from  the  AI  model. You  can  very  easily  find all  kind  of  the  known  edges. If  you  ask  the  quiz  for  the  AI  system, the  AI  system  model can  answer  your  quiz  very  well. But  if  If  you  are  not  in  this, even  cannot  put  up  the  quiz. You  don't  ask  what  you  need  to  ask. For  those  people  who  has  experiencing the  machine  learning  and  the image  analysis  and  processing, I  hope  I  can  help  you  to  see  something. It  appears  to  be  invisible. To  think  something,  you never  thought  about  that. That  you  can.  Have  a very  sorry  fully  in dis  understanding  of  the  concept, method,  and  some  technique. This  is  the  general  style  of  my  teaching. Now,  this  course  contains  14  topics. The  first  three  topics  is very  need  to  image  processing. Be  computer  vision  is  the  machine to  understand  visual  information. The  visual  information included  image  and  video. We  need  no  fundamentals of  the  image  processing. The  first  topics,  the  blue  color  one. The  red  C  one  is  more  related to  the  prediction  decision  theory and  the  machine  learning, use  the  data  to  help  us to  make  a  decision  or  prediction. This  is  the  red  topics. In  this  topics, the  first  one  is  try  to  give  you  intuition, what  is  the  object  recognition. Because  the  earliest  time of  the  computation  is basically  the  object  recognition. Of  course,  now  we  have  the  generative  model to  generate  the  image. But  this  is  just  the  most  recent  one. Even  the  generative  model  also  based on  some  recognition  model. Such  as  the  game.  We  need the  discriminator  generator and  discriminator. Discriminator  is  some  kind  of that  recognition  to discriminate  different  signs. After  the  first  two  topics  in  this  read  one, then  the  remaining  part  is  handle  the  data. Handle  the  training  data. That  means  from  topic  six  to  ten, all  our  machine  learning. We  need  to  machine learning.  We  have  no  choice. Now,  the  deep  learning, the  AM  model  use  the  deep  learning, will  be  better  than our  hand  craft  feature  hand  craft  design. We  will  put  a  lot  of the  hours  to  study  the  machine  learning. The  topic  six  to  eight is  traditional  machine  learning. Start  from  the  fundamentals of  the  statistic  estimation. Machine  learning  is  a  kind  of  estimation, use  the  data  to  estimate  some  value. It's  a  statistic  estimation. We  start  from  the  statistic  estimation, go  to  the  machine  learning. Then  we  will  study the  traditional  machine  learning, how  to  design  the  feature  handcraft. Then  after  that,  we still  need  to  use  the  machine learning  to  do  that  feature  section or  feature  extraction. In  the  traditional  way, we  can  separate  these  two  feature  section and  the  feature  extraction. They  are  different,  they are  not  the  same  things. Now,  the  feature  extraction or  feature  selection  is extremely  important because  the  modern  machine  learning, the  deep  learning  and  the  transformer  both are  very  superior  in terms  of  the  feature  extraction. Not  the  prediction, not  the final  step  classification  or  prediction. For  example  in  the  same all  convolutional  mayor  is some  kind  of  the  feature  extraction,  right? Now,  if  we  already  extract  a  very  reliable, very  robust  feature,  then the  classification  or  final prediction  is  very  simple. This  is  why  now  in  model  AI  model, the  last  Myer  is just  a  linear  classifier,  very  simple. Because  in  the  previous  Myers, we  already  extract  a  very  good  features. Because  of  that,  we  will  study some  traditional  methods  in terms  of  the  features  section and  the  feature  extraction. The  t  two  topics  is  a  deep  learning. We  start  from  the  transitional  work to  the  deep  machine  learning. Then  from  the  CNN  to  the  transformer. Now  now  it  is  this  large  language  model, this  very  large  model  all  are built  up  based  on  the  transformer. Why  we  use  the  transformer,  not  then? We  will  study  the  reasons. How  transformer  overcome some  limitations  of  the  CN. But  nevertheless,  the  revolution  of the  machine  learning  is the  not  the  transformer. How  the  CN  totally change  the  way  machine to  learn  from  the  data. We  will  study  how  why CNN  can outperform  all  traditional  machine  learning. In  what  way  CN  is  super. The  inventor  of  the  CN  professor  Hind receives  the  nobel  prize. Two  or  three  years  ago,  I  cannot  remember. Now,  the  remaining  topic is  we  extend  the  image  into  the  video  and extend  the  two  D  image  into the  three  dimensional  machine perception  and  machine  invasion. These  four  topics  will  be  natured  by a  researchers  from  A  S  doctor  Tan. In  my  part,  I  have nine  weeks  we  will  study  ten  topics. It  may  not  be  one  week,  one  topic. Some  week,  we  may go  to  more  than  one  topic.  Okay. Now,  this  is  Car. Here,  by  the  way,  I  will  introduce  a  course. Now,  I  mentioned  that,  I  also  taught a  lather  graduate  course,  e7403. This  7,000  courses  is  mainly  for research  student  image  analysis and  pattern  regulation. I  will  say  what  is  the  difference. These  two  courses  has  higher  similarity, but  still  we  have  the  difference. I  a  are  course,  e7403, we  don't  study  don't  study  three D.  We  only  focus  on  the  two  D  image. Then  these  four  weeks  here, we  are  be  used  to  study more  image  analysis  and more  in  days  study  of the  traditional  machine  learning and  the  deep  learning. This  is  the  difference  between these  two  courses. In  74e  743, we  are  study  more  in  days  of  some  topics, but  we  don't  study  video  and  three  D.  Okay. Now,  textbook  just  need  some  textbook, are  huge  amount  of different  kind  of  textbooks. But  here  I  just  need  three. One  is  computation. Another  one  is the  best  book  for  image  processing. This  one  is  the  best  textbook for  patent  classification. Then  we  may  mention some  recent  research  papers. In  our  course  material. Now,  then  about  the assessment  signal  to  other  courses. Our  assessment  also  contains  two  parts, continuous  assessment  or  CA  and  final  exam. Final  exam,  we  will  take  60%  and  CA  take  40%. In  this  40%,  we  will  have  10%  for  Q. The  quiz  will  be conducted  in  week  seven  in  the  ture. We  will  take  30  minutes during  the  nture  to  conduct the  quiz.  In  week  seven. Then  another  30%  come from  the  two  assignment. Assignment  is  a  mini  project  for  you  to  do something  to  write  a  report same  as  the  paper. We  have  the  two  assignment, one  come  from  my  part and  one  assignment  come  from the  changing  spot  from  the  last  weeks. Assignment  is  a  homework. You  can  use  the  generative  model to  generate  the  report. But  you  are  solely  responsible  for your  report  because the  AI  model  generated  sense  can  be  won. If  I  detect,  something  is  one. So  that  means  you  just simply  use  the  model  to generate  your  report  and  don't  do  anything. You  can  use  the  r  model to  generate  your  report, but  you  must  go  through  details  and understand  all  of  them  and  correct  the  error. Then  it  is  okay.  If  you  no  change, no  change,  I  will  say,  I  can  see  that. Trust  because  the  A  sense  has  some  format, some  sens  is  very  unique, and  also  some  arrows  can  be inside  of  the  AI  generated.  Okay. Now,  to  study  this  course, we  need  some  prerequisite. The  pre  requisite,  one is  a  probability  theory, because  if  we  study  the  AI  model, it  is  some  kind  of  the  prediction. The  prediction  if  based  on the  machine  learning  to  do  the  prediction, we  cannot  hundred  percent  correct. A  possible  prediction,  we  must  use the  probability  theory  to  measure which  prediction  has  highest  probability. We  need  handle  meaning they  are  all  uncertain. To  make  the  uncertain  sens into  a  definite  venue. Then  we  need  the  prob. Even  now  the  very  famous  generative  model  is the  generative  model  is to  generate  some  utens based  on  non  distribution of  your  training  data. Now,  the  distribution  is  some  of the  probability,  probability  distribution. Probability  is  extremely  important. But  don't  be  scared  that. What  we  met  in  the  probability  is  to really  understand some  very  fundamental  concept. If  you  understand  some  fundamental concept  of  the  probability, then  you  have  no  problem. Many  other  ss  is  just  a  simple  extension from  a  few  very  fundamental  theory in  the  probability. We  only  met  some  fundamental  concept from  the  probability  theory. But  to  utilize  it, to  understand  it  in  the  AI  model, in  our  compilation, we  need  to  really  understand. Not  just  superficially  know  that. Now,  the  second  one  is  a  meniaalgebra. Menear  algebra  is  extremely  important because  the  computer  vision  is  to see  the  image  is  the  data. Image  is  one  input  to  the  model, is  a  huge  amount  of  the  data. For  example,  image,  every pix  the  venue  are  different. One  input  consists  of a  huge  amount  of  the  different  venues. Then  to  study  it,  to  handle  it  to  process  it. We  need  to  present  all  this  data into  a  vector  into  a  matrix. We  need  to  handle  the  vector  and  the  matrix. It  is  very  important  use  mina  algebra. Not  just  for  the  computation, also  for  the  understanding. We  should  understand  the high  dimensional  space. We  should  understand  all  data is  just  one  point  in  high  dimensional  space. We  need  to  understand  what  is  the  projection. Okay. It's  just  the  two  vector  multiplication. We  also  need  to  use  menea  algebra  to understand  the  arge  number  of the  data  are  organized  into  a  vector  metrics. Now,  for  example,  if  you  go to  the  transformer, the  principle  of  the  transformer, all  process  is  a  matrix  multiplication. If  you  don't  understand this  basic  meaning  algebra,  you  are  confused. After  a  few  multiplication,  what  we  get? What  is  the  physical  meaning? What  we  achieve. You  will  not  understand  it. We  need  the  basic  concept of  the  minia  algebra, not  just  for  computation, also  for  understanding  or presentation  of  the  method.  Okay. Now,  the  computer  will handle  the  image  basically. So  we  need  some  theory of  the  singular  process  image  processing. The  single  system  is a  foundation  of  all  singular  processing and  the  image  processing. I  know  some  of  you  has  no  such  background. I  don't  know  why  the  computer  science  student haven't  studied  this  course,  synch  systems. Of  course,  the  student from  the  software  engineering  or software  or  something  like that  never  study  this  course. But  this  is  very  important. For  those  students,  you may  need  to  take  some  time  to review  some  basic  concept and  theory  in  the  synar  processing. Synoytem. It  is  very  important  because this  single  system  is mathematic  model  system  to  process  the  data. For  example,  in  the  sing  system, the  convolution  is  the  basics in  this  single  system. Well,  the  CNN  come  from  the  convolution. If  you  don't  sorry  understanding  convolution, how  can  you  understand the  convolutional  networks, CNN,  it  is  CNN  revolutionize  the  machine. Totally  change,  the  machine to  n  from  the  data. Later,  go  to  this  topic. But  this  convolution  originate from  a  single  in  system, is  originated  from  our  T  E, not  from  the  computer  sins. But  it  is  very  important. Even  some  other  concept  in  the  transformer. The  most  important  concept in  the  transformer  is  at  tension. But  if  you  look  at  the  at  tension  attention, it  is  just  a  correnation. Attention  matrix  is,  all  as  the  co  matrix. Well  in  the  co  matrix, we  also  study  it  in  the  single  systems. Also  study  in  the  probability  theory.  Right? Anyway,  all  this  basic  requisitions, what  you  need  is  the  concept  to  use this  concept  to  understand the  problem  in  the  computer  vision, or  to  understand  the  methodology in  our  computer  vision. Let's  go  to  the  first  topic.  Fundamental  one. What  is  the  image, how  the  image  are  formed. We  will  study  this  very  basic  concept as  the  introduction  of  our  computer  vision. But  here  in  this  topic, this  one  subtopic  is  image. Images  mathematic  definition is  extremely  simple, but  somehow  many  students  find  difficulties if  somehow  the  quiz  is  related  to  the  Hs. Be  ys  is  also  a  some  kind  of  the  transform, we  transform  the  image  into  the  st  of. In  this  topical,  pay attention  to  understand what  is  the  image  st  of. What  is  the  image  show  image. O  image  is  two  D.  It  is  a  brightens, or  strains  of  different  spatial  positions. We  have  different  different  brightnes Then  we  see  that  information. This  is  a  image. Now,  image  is  a  two  D, but  our  physical  word  is  three  D.  Image  is a  two  dimensional  projection  of the  three  dimensional  s or  all  three  dimensional  physical  word. Okay. Now,  how  the  image  are  formed. Image  will  be  formed based  on  three  component. First  is  19. We  must  have  the  night. The  19  source  is  a  first  component. The  second  component  is  a  object. Object  will  reflect  the  night and  the  different  position  spatial  position, the  reflection  are  different. The  reflect  the  night  stre  are  different. This  difference  will  carry  the  information. Different  information  will  carry  by the  different  di  distributed in  the  spatial  range. We  have  the  object  to  reflect  the  night. Now  that  reflects  the  night  at a  different  position reflect  a  different  amount. Then  this  will  carry  the  information. Then  this  will  form  the  image. Now,  this  reflection  night goes  through  a  plane, a  two  dimensional  plane, we  have  a  ray  of  the  sensor. That  means  we  have  a  huge  number  of the  sensor  in  a  spatial  plane. Then  different  position will  have  different  sensor, each  will  receive  the  night come  reflected  by  the  object. In  this  sense  different  sensor  received the  amount  of  night all  strings  of  the  night  are  different. Then  it  will  form  image. We  have  meaning  sensors. One  point,  one  sensor, another  point,  another  sensor, different  sensor  will  receive different  amount  of  the  night. The  brightens  will  be  different. Then  it  will  form  a  image. And  then  from  the  object  to  reflect  the  night to  the  sensor  to receive  the  night  reflected  by  the  object, we  must  go  through  a  nuns. The  imaging  system,  in  fact,  it  is  a  nuns. Now,  this  is  a  necessary  part in  all  imaging  system, such  as,  our  human  eye, all  has  this  nuns. Now,  what  is  the  role  of  this  mens? Why  we  must  have  the  mens? What  is  the  role  of  the  mens? Of  course,  everybody  know even  in  the  secondary  school, the  role  of  the  nuns  is  the  focus. But  if  we  just  simply  understand  the  folks, what  means  the  focus? Folks  means  light  in the  spatial  distributed  night  of  folks into  one  point.  This  is  the  focus. But  in  the  image  system, why  we  met  the  ns? In  the  imaging  system,  at  the  end, we  have  a  different  night distributed  in  spatial  plane. Why  we  meet  the  focus? Also,  you  must  also lend  in  your  secondary  school, we  can  also  form  a  image  without  the  ns. But  we  must  have  a  very  small  holes. The  night  from  the  object  to  this  plan must  only  go  through  a  very  small  holes. Why?  If  we  don't  use the  ens  we  use  a  small  holes, we  can  si  form  a  image. Okay. Now  here,  the  role  of the  nuns  is  to  make  sure  in this  sensor  a  one  sensor  at one  particular  position  spatial  position can  only  receive the  from from  particular  position  in  this  object, where  the  night  from other  positions  will  never come  to  this  point. And  then  different  sensor  at a  different  spatial  position  will  receive only  the  night  at a  different  physical  positions. We  can  form  the  image. Otherwise,  if  one  single  sensor at  one  point  can receive  the  night  from  every  way. Then  we  cannot  form  the  image. This  is  a  pretty  coma. The  role  of  the  nuns  is  to prevent  night  from  other  plays  come  to this  point  and  only  allow  one  point of  the  night  come  to one  point  in  this  sensor  ray. Then  of  course,  this is  a  necessary  conditions to  form  a  image  in  the  sensor  array. We  understand  if  we  don't  use  that  ens, we  can  also  use  a  very  small  hole, almost  zero  diameters. We  know  this  night  we  transmit  in  a  strene. If  we  have  a  very  small  hole, then  we  can  also  form  a  image. The  rule  is  the  same  as  the  mens. One  point  of  the  night  only  comes  to one  particular  point  in the  sensor,  sensor  play. Now,  if  you  want  to  really  understand  that, then  you'll  need  to  think  about  what  is the  difference  between  the  nuns and  a  small  hole. Why  in  the  image  in the  camera  in  our  human  eyes, we  have  a  s, not  a  very  small  hole. This  is  one.  I'm  not quite  sure  you  have  think  about  it  or  not. Also,  what  is  the  disadvantage if  we  use  as  not  a  small  hole. Small  hole  has  a  disadvantage compared  to  the  ns, but  I  believe  small  hole  also  has the  advantage  compared  to  a  ns. Have  you  ever  thought about  the  comparison  between a  small  hole  in  this  imaging  system or  use  a  ens  in  this  image  system. If  you  find  the  answer, then  you  really  understand the  role  of  the  ens  in  this  imaging  system. Now,  we  know  that  imaging  system has  three  component  object to  reflect  the  night. Of  course,  then  this  sensor  ray. Ns  is  just  a  focus. Make  sure  one  point  come  to  one  point. Now  we  will  study  this  component, this  source  and  object  and this  sensor  ray  to  receive  the  night. Now,  what  is  the  kiting  source? A  night  in  terms of  the  information  processing. In  terms  of  the  information, it  is  a  wave  form. Of  course,  in  physics, night  is  also  a  particle, but  here  we  treat  it  as  a  wave  form. The  visible  night  has the  waveform  start  from has  some  frequency  range, or  some  range  of  the  wave  lens. We  know  that  wave  lens  is the  inverse  of  the  frequency. Of  course,  multiplied  by  speed. But  anyway,  the  relation  of  the  frequency  and the  waves  is  the  inverse. We  have  some  range  of the  frequency  or  waves our  human  eyes  can  percept. Outside  of  this  range, our  human  eye  cannot  percept. Sun  night  is  a  wave  form contains  many  frequency  components, almost  evenly  distributed  in this  range  of  the  frequency, or  in  this  range  of  the  waves. It  is  almost  evenly  distributed. Now,  for  su  kind  of  the  wave  form, we  have  many  frequency  component, almost  same  strings. If  this  kind  of the  night  come  to  our  human  eye, we  will  fear,  it  is  a  white  conor. The  whitener,  Sunnit  is  a  white  cner  because it  contains  wave  form  of  many  frequency, and  all  frequency  are  almost  same  strings. This  is  a  sun  or  white  night. Now,  this  white  night, we  can  verify  this  sun  night  contains many  frequency  components  because  we can  this  night  goes  through  a  optical  prisim. Then  the  night  we  are decomposed  into different  frequency  components. Then  we  will  see  that  differenter. Our  human  eyes,  we  different  cners. This  decomposition  is  because  the  night goes  from  one  medium  to  ather  medium, it  will  bend  the  direction will  bend  and  different  frequency or  different  wavelen  the  angle of  the  bending  angle  will  be  different. Because  of  that,  go  to  the  night  from one  medium  to  another  medium and  come  to  this  medium, then  it  will  separate the  different  component into  different  spatial  positions. We  will  see  we  will  feel  this  different  con. Now,  the  different  medium why  this  night  were  bending. Because  at  different  medium, the  density  of  the  medium  are different  in  a  very  low  density  medium, the  night  will  travel faster  than  in  the  medium, it  is  a  dense  medium. The  night  speed  are  different. Then  it  will  bending. Why  is  the  night  we  bending. The  night  is  very  smart. Night  is  really  the  court. It's  bending  the  purpose  of  the  bending is  that  night  is  always  try  to gate  from  one  point  come to  the  destination  point  in  a  shortest  time. Now,  here  the  speed  we  are faster  in  this  low  density  medium and  slower  in  high  density  medium. If  one  point  of  the  night  from this  position  come  to  this  position, if  go  to  street  nine, it  will  be  slow  go  to  this  pass. Because  this  pass  will  transmit  in  no  medium in  speed  and  in  this  des  medium, it  drive  shorter  distance compared  to  street  use  a  straight  ne. Because  the  night  try  to  get its  destination  in shortest  way,  then  it  will, the  bending  will  will  make the  triveling  time  smaller than  in  street  mine, because  the  speed  are  different. This  is  the  physics. But  anyway  go  through  this  prism, we  can  decompose  the  mixed  frequency waveform  into  a  single  frequency  waveform. Then  our  human  eyes, we  feel  the  different  night.  A  different  cn. Sorry.  Now,  our  human  eyes will  feel  this  many  different  cn, is  not  just  a  red,  green,  blue, or  yell,  many  different, or  human  eyes  can  persve. I  O  human  eyes  has so  high  frequency  resolution. We  can  pers  so  slight  different  frequency. No,  our  human  eyes  can never  perceive  different  frequency. But  why  our  human  eyes can  perceive  different? Nta  area  further  study  this  issue. Now,  as  I  mentioned that  night  air contains  meaning  frequency  component. In  general,  different  frequency here  is  a  different  waves. A  frequency  wavens  is  just  inverts. The  different  frequency, the  strengths  of  this  lighting source  may  be  different. The  night  usually  is a  function  of  the  frequency. A  different  frequency,  lighting  source, the  strength  may  be  different. So  we  will  see  different  cner. Although  the  sun  night  is  a  white  cner is  all  frequency  the  strings are  almost  the  same. But  in  general,  for  different  frequency, source  of  the  night, the  strings  will  be  different. The  strings  of  the  night is  a  function  of  the  frequency. Now,  if  this  night  come  to  a  object, and  then  the  object  reflect  the  night, then  the  reflection  rate will  be  different  for  different  frequency. This  is  why  even  the  source  is  a  white  night, but  come  to  the  object,  reflect  it, we  will  see  different  B  different  material  or different  object  reflect  the  night  strengths of  the  night  different. This  so  called  reflectivity, or  the  t  of  the  reflection  of  the  night  are also  a  function  of  the  frequency. This  multiplication  will  produce the  strings  of  the  night  reflect by  the  object. Okay.  Even  this  air is  constant  over  all  frequency. But  what  we  receive the  night  reflect  by  the  object, will  have  different  nor  because the  re  reflectivity  of the  object  are  different for  different  frequency. Now,  this  nada  is the  night  reflected  by  the  object. This  night  will  come  to  our  human  eyes, or  come  to  the  camera. Then  all  our  human  eyes receives  the  night  by  a  sensor. Right?  At  a  different  spatial  position, we  have  meaning  sensors. So  for different  sensor  at  a  different  position, it  will  receive  the  amount of  the  night  different. Here,  we  put  the  spatial  variable x  and  the  y  as a  variable  in  this  ref  night and  received  the  night. So  here  is  just  for  one  point  of  the  night. We  don't  discuss  at  a  different  position. The  reflection  are  different. But  here  we  put the  x  and  y  as  a  variable  here. Now,  the  night  reflected  by  the  object, come  to  the  sensor. Then  the  sensor  also  have a  so  called  sensitivity  to  receive  the  night. Okay.  This  sensitivity  of the  sensor  to  receive the  night  is  also  a  function  of the  frequency,  or  the  waves. That  means  different  frequency  wave  form, the  sensor  will  receive  it  some  frequency, it  will  suppress  the  frequency  will  not suppress  the  night  come  to  the  sensor. The  relation  is  multiplied  together. The  night  is  a  function  of the  different  position  and  the  frequency. Then  multiply  by  the  sensitivity  of  a  sensor. This  is  the  strength  of  the  night. After  this  product  multiplication is  the  strength  of  the  night received  by  the  sensor  for one  frequency  for  one  waves, and  then  the  sensor  will  receive this  night  over  all  different  frequency. It  will  integrate  over all  frequency  together  to form  one  stre  or  the  brightness  venue. Now,  from  here,  we  can  see  what one  sensor  received  the  strings  of the  night  A  is not  a  function  of  the  frequency  because all  different  frequencies  the  sts over  different  frequency  are accumulated  together  a  sum together  to  produce  one  value. O  sensor  only  receive  one  venue. This.  This  value  is  accumulate  of the  night  reflected  by object  accumulated  over  all  frequency. The  sensor  receives the  night  has  no  frequency, has  only  one  vue. The  strength  of  the  night. But  why  of  human  eyes  perceive  different? This  is  because  this  sensitivity  function of  the  sensor  is  a  function  of  the  frequency, and  our  human  eyes  has different  type  of the  sensor  with  sensitivities. It  will  show  this  sensitivity is  a  function  of  the  frequency. It  usually  is  a  ba  shape. It  is  such  of  the  shape. It  is  a  function  against  the  frequency, or  the  wavelen  What is  the  meaning  of  this  curve, or  this  function,  numb. V  is  the  vue  received  by  the  sensor. For  diff  different  frequency, the  received  value  are  different if  suppose  the  reflect the  night  come  to the  sensor  are  constant  overall. Over  all  frequency, but  the  sensor  will  receive the  night  at  this  frequency  is  highest. At  some  other  frequency, it  will  suppress  the  input, the  output  will  be  very  small. The  sensor  can  only  receive  a  small  venue. Even  the  input  are constant  over  different  frequency. This  sensitivity  function  is very  similar  to the  so  called  frequency  response  of  a  system. Now,  what  means  frequency  response? Response  means  output. Response  means  our  the  sensor response  to  the  input. The  vertical  value  is  response  is  output. Out  is  a  value  received  by  the  sensor. This  response  is  a  frequency  response because  for  different  frequency, the  response  are  different? The  output  are  different? Even  the  input  are same  for  different  frequency, but  the  output  is different  as  such  of  the  value. Same  unit  input. If  at  this  frequency, the  unit  input,  the  output  is  also  unit  one. But  a  same  unit  input  if  at  this  frequency, the  output  is  almost  zero. For  different  frequency,  the  response or  the  output  value  are  different. So  it's  called  frequency  response. Now,  this  is  the  so  called the  sensitivity  of  a  sensor. Our  human  eyes  also seem  similar  as  the  camera. We  have  the  ns  and  we  have  a  sensor  here. But  in  our  human  eyes, we  have  type  of  three  types  of  the  sensor. The  different  cer,  we  just  use  the  c to  different  cn  to  indicate, different  type  of  the  sensors. The  different  type,  the  difference  is because  the  frequency  spans, all  the  sensitivity  to the  frequency  are  different. O  human  eyes  has different  type  of  the  sensor. Now,  because  we  have different  type  of  the  sensor. Given  a  light  reflect  to  the  object. We  our  human  eyes  will receive  different  value  from different  type  of  the  sensor. Now,  because  this  different  value, our  sensor  received  the  value  F  1f2f3  are different  because  the  sensitivity of  this  three  different  sensor  are  different. Now,  for  example,  if  the  input if  the  input  frequency is  here,  is  this  frequency. Then  the  first  sensor  will receive  value  is  this  vertical  value. The  second  sensor  will receive  this  vertical  value, the  third  sensor  will  receive  this  value. The  value  are  different. Now,  this  different  vue  of different  type  of  the  sensor receive  this  different  value in  our  human  eyes, we  will  feel  different  cn. Although  the  cnel  is a  function  of  the  valence, but  really  the  nel  is the  different  rentive  value  of  this  f  1f2f3. A. Although  for  ending  sensor, what  one  sensor  received  is just  amount  of  the  energy  of  the  night. Nothing  to  do  with  the  frequency. But  we  have  different  type  of the  sensor  with  sensitivity, frequency  sensitivity,  or  frequency  responds. The  venue  are  different. This  relative  venue  of  this will  make  our  human  to  f  a  different  nor. Now,  the  different  frequency corresponding  to  different  cn. For  example,  this  green  cn. Green  here,  if  input  into  this  three  sensors, then  we  will  have  the  first  sensor and  the  third  sensor  will  re  received  value. But  the  second  sensor  will  received  value will  be  barber  of  the  f  and  third  one. Now,  if  we  have  the  second  censor  second  type of  the  sensor  in  our  human  eyes received  the  value, the  strength  is  twice  of the  other  two  censer  and other  $0.02  are  almost  the  same. Then  our  human  eyes  where  feel  is  this  del. Our  brain  feel  is  this  kind. That  means  although  this frequency  of  the  night, we  case  this  different  value. But  this  is  not  the  only  way. We  can  use  c  of the  input  into  our  human  eyes. So  as  the  different  sensor receive  the  different  value  as  211. Then  we  will  feel  it  is  the  green  canner. This  is  why  we  see  the  corner  can  be  sorry, the  corner  composed by  three  different  components. RGB,  corresponding  to  receive the  chest  vue  from  one  type  of  the  sensor. Here,  this  one  the  second  type of  the  sensor  will  receive  the  chest  venue. This  component,  if  we  combine, use  a  different  combination, then  we  will  form  bit. Why  all  these  electronic device  will  show  this. All  this  cer  is  fake  cn. It  is  not  really  this  night  reflect  to our  human  eyes  is corresponding  to  a  specific  frequency. It  is  this  point, it  will  emit  different  c of  the  night  with  different  stre. So  not  as  the  native  strings  of  this  china is  same  as  some  particular  frequency  is  same, then  our  human  eyes will  feel  the  same  corner. This  is  why  we  see  this  cn is  a  site  dimensional  space. A  corner  is  a  point in  this  site  dimensional  space. Some  textbook  sad that  any  arbitrary  nel  formed  by combination  of  the  component  RGB by  for  example, a  times  r  b  times  g  g  and  c  times  B. In  fact,  it  is  not  sum  together. It's  not  some  the  three  components  together, our  human  eyes  has  this  three  component for  different  type  of  the  sensor. Then  we  will  fill  the  cel. We  can  change  the  value  of ABC  to  change  the  nel. Nt  or  human  eyes  to  feel  different  corner. Carner  is  just  a  point in  se  dimensional  space. If  we  use  axis  use  the  RGB  as  axis, one  corner  is  one  point in  this  three  dimensional  cel  space. Before  the  deep  learning  in the  computation  or  image  recolion. The  theory  method  is  only study  one  channel  of  the  image. It  is  a  green  level  image. Only  the  brightens,  there's  no  nel. Only  in  the  deep  learning, we  have  such  a  computation  power, we  have  no  problem  to hand  three  channel  of  the  input. Then  we  always  take the  TB  input  into  the  model. But  theoretical  study this  image  processing  and many  other  methods  before the  declens  only  focus  on  one  image. It  is  a  green  l  image. In  that  time,  in  that  time, I  have  one  research  work, how  to  combine  this  different  component to  enhance  the  reconion  performance. This  is  one  paper  to  study the  nel  channel  fusion,  how  fusion, the  different  ch  the  result of  the  different  nel  channel. Now,  if  different  is just  a  different  point in  this  site  dimensional  space. To  make  a  point in  this  site  dimensional  space, we  can  use  different  coordinate. Not  just  use  RGB. We  can  rotate  this  axis. Right?  To  specify  any  point. We  have  different  kind  of  the  cer  space. RGB  is  one  cer  space. We  have  meaning  other  cer  space. Before  the  deep  learning, I  have  also  one  research  work  study, what  how  this  different  cer  space will  affect  the  reconnion  result. To  study  and  then  based  on this  study  to  generate  a  new  as  ase. Different  as  ase  is just  make  this  coordinate  different. No  use  RGB. We  can  use  different  coordinate. Now,  after  we  study  this  so  called  a  space and  image  is  just  channel  of  the  image. Channel.  Be  all  or  information will  be  contained  in this  channel  of  the  image. This  channel  can  be  RGB  also  can  be other  channels  or  even  not  use the  channel  use  H  or  HSI. But  this  is  not  what  we  want  to  study  it. To  study  how  we  have then  to  perceive  the  nel, we  just  stop  here. Then  from  now  on,  we  only  study one  channel  of  the  image because  it  is  simpler. It's  more  easier  to  study  it. Cel  image  is  just extended  one  image  into  three  image. That's  no  more  than  that. Okay.  Now,  if  we study  one  channel  of  the  image, then  one  image  only  give  out  the  brightness. Different  spatial  position has  different  brightness, all  the  studs  of  the  night. Basically,  a  image  mathematically  is just  a  two  dimensional  function  is a  function  of  the  spatial  position  X and  Y.  X  and  Y, we  specify  a  point  in  a  plane. I  will  specify  a  spatial  position. For  different  spatial  position, the  brightness  value  A  value  are  different. This  will  form  a  image. Basically,  one  china  of  the  image  is just  a  function  of spatial  coordinate,  f  x,  y. Mathematically,  or  to  handle the  image  in  computer, image  is  just  a  two  dimensional  function or  a  function  of  the  two  variable. Now,  of  course,  the  computer  can only  study  the  digital  image. Digital  image  is  just sample  the  continuous  variable  x  and  y into  discrete  value  and  also  quantiles the  value  of  the  into  discrete  value. Then  we  have  the  digital  image. Right?  For  example  here, this  is  a  continuous  image, or  this  area  sample  into  one  venue, another  area  sample  into  another  point. Each  this  point  is  called  a  pixel. Digital  image  contains  meaning pixels  because  it's  discrete,  right? The  quantization  will  show usually  in  the  image, we  use  eight  bet. It  will  quantize  the  grid  value  into 256  different  v.  We call  it  a  green  nel  image. In  the  digital  image. Spatial  we  sample  it, we  call  spatial  sample  it  is to  discretize  the  X  and  Y. For  the  A  ue  to discretize  it,  we  call  quantization. This  is  just  a  different  name. We  have  that  digital  image. Here  image  can  be  denoted, all  represented  by  a  function  of the  two  spatial  variable  x  and  y. The  e  value  indicated  the  intensity,  g  l, brightens,  will  have  many  different  name, but  it  is  the  same  meaning. The  strengths  of  the  n  is  the  e  value. A  different  position  x  and  y, this  e  vue  strength of  brightens  are  different. Then  this  is  a  gen  level  image. We  have  the  digital  image  is all  the  X  and  Y  and  A  are  discrete  value. But  for  the  discrete  value, use  only  X  and  Y, we  take  the  integer. We  just  use  the  integer. But  if  we  can  use  any  a  three  value. Not,  it  is  the  integer. Although  the  image,  if we  want  to  store  it  into  a  file, we  need  to  convert  the  f  into  the  integer. But  in  the  computer  or  theoretic  study  it, this  f  can  be  value,  0.1, 0.20  0.5,  n  value  can  be this  f.  But  X  and  Y  will  use  the  integer. Now,  a  digital  image is  the  function  of  the  X  and  Y. This  is  one  example  of  the  function. The  is  a  function  of  the  x  and  y. The  numeric  a  numeric  value of  the  image  can  be  arranged  into  a  matrix. The  image  is  a  function of  the  spatial  variable  x  and  y. Digital  image  is  just  a  matrix. The  different  element  indicate different  positions  and  the  value of  the  element  indicate  the  green, or  the  brightnes  This  is  the  image. To  study  the  image, we  just  study  a  two  dimensional  function. We  just  study  a  matrix.  No  more  than  that. Now,  if  we  talk  about  the  image, spatial  resolution, spatial  resolution  of the  image  is  represented  by the  size  of  the  image  of the  same  sin  or  same  object. For  example,  for  the  same  object  here. If  we  use  a  large  size  of  the  image, we  say  this  is  a  hight  image, spatial  resolution. If  we  have  a  small  size  of  the  image, we  call  this  image  has  no  spatial  resolution. Here  the  large  size indicate  it's  a  high  spatial  reolution. Now,  if  we  talk  about  the  spatial  resolution, O  common  sense  is for  high  spatial  resolution, the  image,  we  should say  the  image  is  very  sharp. If  we  see  a  image  has  a  very  now  resolution, then  we  should  say  the  image  is  blurred. But  from  this  image, if  you  compare  this  two  image, it  appears  to  be  this  image  is  also  sharp, clear,  not  the  blur. This  is  because  we  display this  small  size  image  also  in  a  small  area. We  can  not  feel  the  blur  of  this  node  image. Now,  if  we  have  small  size  of  the  image, but  we  display  it  into the  same  size  as  this  one,  what  you  will  see. You  will  see  here  compared  to  here, obviously,  this  is  a  blur. Right?  Okay.  No  spatial re  image  is  a  blurred.  Okay. High  spatial  revolution,  will  produce  car  and sharp  image  because  the  detail  is  very clear  This  spatial  resolution. Here  we  will  say  a  larger  resolution is  this  one  is also  show  a  spatial  resolution. We  display  a  large  size  of  the  image  and small  size  of  image  into  area. Then  this  sm  amount  of  the, if  we  dip  into the  a  large  number  of  the  pixels, then  one  pixel  we  occupy  a  larger  area. Here  we  will  see  that no  relution  image  is  blurred. High  relution  image  is  kmer  sharp. Now,  this  is  spatial  revolution. F  the  relution  is  a  naval  resolution. This  show  the  effect  of  the  different  nor  to quantize  the  brightness  of  the  image. This  one  will  show  the  image  is  quantized. The  brightness  of  the  pix is  quantized  by  eight  beat. Altogether,  we  have  256  different  ga. Here  on  this  nine, we  will  reduce  the  number  of  the  navers. The  novest  one  is  a  two  na. Then  we  have  the  binary  image, only  white  and  black. Here,  we  show  the  effect  of the  different  quid  never  resolution. This  is  48  ne. This  is  the  highest  nab  in  our  common  image. We  use  eight  beat. Now,  as  I  mentioned  that  in  our  first  topic, we  will  introduce  the  concept of  the  so  called  Histogram. Watch  the  hast  gram. Given  a  digital  image  f  x  y, we  can  always  compute  its  Hs  g. In  terms  of  the  mathematic definition  of  the  st  g, it  is  extremely  simple. Very  simple.  Given  image, the  image  is  the  function  of the  spatial  position  x  and  y. If  we  transform  it  into  a  st  g, it  becomes  to  a  function  of  the  A. Now,  the  function  value  here if  becomes  to  the  variable  in  the  sta. H  is  a  function  of  the  never because  here  we  study  is a  stogm  of  the  gnaver. In  of  the  image. The  function  of  the  in  never. Then  the  function  value  is just  the  number  of  the  pixels  in  this  image, the  value  of  in  nel  is  equals  to  eight. Basically,  what  is  the  value? Has  value  is  just  a  number  of the  pixels  of  the  same  g  value. Then  different  g  value, we  have  different  number  of the  pixels  in  a  particular  image. We  have  different  function  value  p.  Has, Has  value  is  just  the  number of  the  pixels,  so  simple. Of  course,  we  normalize  this  number  of the  pixels  by  the  total  number of  the  pixel  of  the  image. So  that  the  value  is  always smaller  than  one  and  the  sum  of all  this  stra  value together  is  equals  to  one. Because  it  is  normalized  by the  total  number  of  the  pixels. For  example,  if  given  image the  size  is  100  by  100  pixels. So  we  have  10,000  pixels. Then  this  n  is  just  10,000. Then  this  n  is  the  number  of the  pixel  of  different  vue,  Q. Is  function  of  the  A.  Then  this  is  a  s  one. Symbol. Although  the  mathematic definition  is  very  simple, but  many  student  previously  find, it  is  difficult  to  understand, is  because  although  it  is  a  simple, but  it  is  also  some  of  the  transform. Because  the  function the  variable  are  not  the  same. Given  image,  the  function  value  in the  t  becomes  a  variable. Sometimes  some  students is  somehow  confused  here. Now,  especially,  we  will  study one  technique  is  called  sg  equization. Given  a  image,  we need  convert  this  image  into  the  st  gum. Then  we  need  convert this  stra  value  P  into the  g  veue  of  the  output  image. Then  this  one  a  lot  of the  problem  among  many  students. But  here,  the  mathematics is  extremely  simple,  right? Of  course,  the  physical  meaning  of  the  m is  the  distribution  of  the  l, or  the  frequency  of the  occurrence  of  the  nel. Different  l,  how  many  pixels. This  frequency  distribution  is  very similar  to  the  probability  distribution. P,  PDF, you  are  more  familiar  with  what  is  the  PDF, but  PDF  is  for  the  continuous  variable, for  d  quite  variable, in  fact,  is  the  P,  PF. But  probably  density  function is  more  familiar  anyway, we  just  use  the  PDF. The  histogram  is  very  similar  to  the  PDF. Be  it  satisfy  the  condition  of  the  PDF. A  value  P  is  non  negative. The  sum  of  all  this function  value  is  equals  to  y. This  is  very  straightforward because  all  number of  pixels  at  a  different  gen  level is  normalized  by the  total  number  of  the  pixels. If  this  sum  overall  different  level, then  it's  a  total  number  of  the  pixes. Of  course,  the  sum  over  all  pix, all  different  g  level  is  one. I  satisfy  all  conditions  of the  PDF  or  probability  distribution. In  some  textbook  or  even  some  previous  nature just  call  the  gram  is  a  PDF  of  the  image. But  in  fact,  the  concept are  totally  different. Probit  PDF  is  related  to  the  probability. Probability  is  a  theoretical  value. Is  a  possibility  of the  pixel  at  this  g  value. We  can  only  say  if  we take  a  pixel  g  value  as  a  random  variable. Then  this  histogram  serve  as one  estimate  of  the  probability. The  estimate,  the  real  probability  value could  may  not  be  exactly  same  as  this  stem. Because  esque  only  computed the  value  from  one  image. But  the  probability  concept  of  probability is  a  possibility  of the  pixel  take  this  value. You  talk  about  the  overall a  class  of  the  image. For  example,  what  is  the  PDF  of the  g  value  for  the  human  face? Or  even  if  we  stay  the  PDF, then  the  PDF  of  the  female  face  image and  the  PDF  of the  male  face  image  will  be  different. It's  some  kind  of  the  probability, it  should  be  some  kind of  the  theoretical  value. We  use  this  value  to  expect the  future  if  we  have  an  image, what  is  the  possibility? But  the  qua  is  the  real  value. We  use  one  image  to  compute  it. But  we  can  take  this  his  as one  estimate  of  the  pro  currency  or  PDF. But  the  concept  they  are  different. Similar  to  probability  and  statistics. Static  statistic  is  to  use the  real  available  data  to  compute  it, where  probability  is  a  stic  value  is  use this  value  to  expect what  we  can  see  in  future. But  we  can  use  the  population  of our  available  data  to  estimate the  probability  use  it to  expect  what  is  the  future. We  can  see  that.  Now  the  quam can  show  some  property  of  the  image. Now,  if  we  understand  the  quam  just  now, the  simple  mathematic  definition. Then  this  is  very  straightforward. Give  a  image  if  it's  a  dark, the  camera  takes  this  image  under  explosion. Then  it's  a  very  dark  image. Then  the  sam  be  such  of  the  shape. Because  y.  Because  in  the  m, the  Hunt  axis  is  different  qui  value. Vertical  axis  is  number  of  the  pixels. Of  course,  the  mormonized number  of  the  pixes. For  the  dark  image, most  pixes  has  small  value. For  the  small  value, we  have  the  number  of  the  pixes. Well,  for  the  g  value  of  the  qui, we  have  no  pixes  is  bright. Here  is  zero,  right? Similarly,  if  given  a  brighter  image, take  this  image  by  over  explosion, then  the  he  squa,  non zero  value  of  the  squa will  concentrate  in  the  high  value. Now,  given  a  image, if  we  compute  the  c, then  find  that  the  non  zero  value  of the  c  will  be  in  a  very  narrow  range, whatever  this  range  is. Nong  as  it's  a  narrow  range, then  this  image  should  be a  no  contrast  image because  the  difference  between different  pictures  are  small. We  have  many  pictures, we  have  only  small  difference. Now,  ideal  image, a  very  ear  image  for  our  human  eyes. The  sg  should  be  should  be  split  out, take  all  range  of  the  green  venue. For  all  different  green  level, we  have  almost  the  same  number of  the  pixels  in  this  image. That  we  will  see  a  image. Now  from  here,  we  also understand  what  is  the  sto  gram. Now,  Hm  is  just  a  summarize  of  the  image. Summarize  some  information  of  the  image. It  will  lose  the spatial  information  of  the  image. Now,  for  example,  we  have  the  histogram. We  know  that  for  certain  ei  value, we  have  what  is  the  number of  the  pixels  in  the  image. But  we  never  know  what is  the  spatial  position. The  spatial  information  of the  image  are  totally  nosed  in  the  stage. Because  m  is  just  counter  how  many  pixes. Regardless  where  is the  position  of  this  inator. Hm  is  just  summarize of  some  information  of  the  image. It  will  nose  of the  informations  of  the  image. But  this  nose  of  the  information does  not  necessarily  mean  it  is  a  bad  ss. Because  for  main  processing, we  need  remove  information, they  are  relevant  to  our  purpose. It  is  redundant  for  our  purpose. We  need  to  reduce the  information  of  the  input. So  that  the  information  will  be invariant  to  some  kind of  some  class  of  the  image. By  the  way, all  information  processing  system. The  system  cannot  increase the  amount  of  the  information  of  the  input. The  system  produce  output  can  only reduce  the  amount  of  the  information. Can  never  increase the  amount  of  the  information. If  the  system artificially  create  some  information, then  this  information  is  a  fake  information. It  is  not  in  the  input. Then  this  system  has  sums  one. All  system  can  only reduce  the  amount  of  the  information. All  processing  system  is  try  to  reduce the  ear remount  information  for  particular  task. This  is  why  the  qua remove  the  spatial  information  of  the  image. For  some  application,  it  could  be  very  good. Here  I  missed  out  some of  the  sense  for  example  here. Based  on  the  scum, we  can  very  easily  to identify  what  is  such  kind  of  the  image. For  example,  if  we  have  a  image  hem  is  here. We  know  this  image  has  two  peak. In  this  two  peak,  we  have  large  number  of pixes  with  a  bright  value,  the  higher. We  have  a  small  amount  of  the  image  is  back. But  this  two  peak  are  clearly  separated. Here  we  can  see  this  image should  be  a  object, small  object  in  white  and  bright  background. It's  a  arg  area  of the  background  because  the  number  of pixes  is  much  larger  than  this  one. It's  a  bright  background  because this  group  has  are  value. The  whole  venue  is  nare. The  object  is  a  back and  small  number  of  the  pixes. Corresponding  to  this  image. From  here,  we  can  also  see, although  it  is  a  two  peak. But  we  can  say  this  is a  background  because  we  have  a  arge  area. Number  of  the  pi.  We  have a  small  number  of  pixs,  is  a  small  area. But  all  background  is  not  the  same  venue. The  background  still  has some  small  difference  of the  venue,  green  venue. The  object  has  also some  different  green  never. Although  they  are  concentrate in  the  dark  value, but  they  have  some  difference. The  background  has  some  difference  here, the  background  is  not  the  same  green  nel. Now,  the  quin  because it  reduces  the  information, so  that  can  be  used  to  as  the  feature. Before  the  deep  learning, meaning  hand  craft  feature  is  at the  end  will  convert  into  some  of  the  que. Before  the  dep  leone, we  have  two  very  famous  features. One  is  called  ABP,  noc  binary  pattern. We  first  convert  image  grid  value into  a  code, so  called  binary  code. Avery  pixe  is  a  binary  code. Of  course,  compile  the  pixel with  its  surrounding  pixels. Then  we  generate  a  code. This  code  is  no  combinary  pattern. But  after  we  have  this  code  to do  to  take  the  feature for  the  image  recognition, we  never  directly  use  this  code. What  we  use  is  the  histogram  of  this  code. Given  a  image,  how  many  pixes  has  the  same, how  many  pies  has  a  code. It's  them  of  the  ABP  are  used  as a  very  effective  features to  do  the  image  recognition. This  is  one  example  of  the  st  gum. Another  very  famous  feature is  called  HOG  feature. Now,  HOG  feature  means  the  st  gum  of the  O  oriented  gradients of  the  oriented  gradient. Given  a  image,  we  can  compute  the  gradient. Then  gradient  will  show  the  direction or  the  orientation  of  the  image  pattern. But  the  orientation  or direction  information  are not  directly  used  as the  feature  to  recognize  this  image. We  compute  the  st  of different  directions  or different  orientations  as  the  feature. Now,  this  two  very  famous  feature come  at  the  end  in  some  of  the  st. Here,  what  I  missed  paper  is all  these  are  my  research  paper or  are  remaled  to  the  Hs. But  this  H  as  the  feature  can  also  publish  in the  higher  end  the  journal  such  as I  transection  and  image  processing. A  few  of  this  paper  come  from the  IT  transection  of  image  processing. Now,  why  we  need  the  image  processing, we  have  many  different  purposes. Here  just  shows  data, and  will  show  some  different  purpose. But  all  image  processing because  we're  processing  data. All  this  operation  must be  described  or  represented  by  mathematics. To  study  this  course,  we  need  mathematics. Because  we  handle  the  data. But  don't  be  scared  by  this  mathematics. A  mathematics  we  use  is a  simple  mathematics,  Integration, differentiation,  summation, and  t  very  simple  mathematics. But  we  need  really  understand the  physical  meaning  of this  simple  mathematics. Okay.  Now,  many  application we  need  the  image  processing, such  as  visualization,  image  understanding, even  the  automatic  guide  vehicle and  some  kind  of the  robot  control  and  security, and  the  information  retrieval all  this  application  met  process  the  image. Here,  show  some  visual  examples. This  show  the  contrast  enhancement given  kind  of  the  input  image. Obviously,  in  this  image, large  area  are  very  dark. It  is  not  very  car. But  if  we  apply a  proper  image  processing  technique, we  can  generate  the output  image  like  this  one. Obviously,  this  image  is  much  car  the  input. This  is  called  contrast  enhancement. This  contrast  enhancement is  basically  because this  image  processing  is  for  our  human  eye, for  our  human  eyes  perception. Okay.  It  obviously  increase the  contrast  of  this  dark  area. Okay.  It  a  price, it  decrease  the  contrast  of  the  bright  area. If  you  compare  some  part of  here  and  here  you  will  see, the  contrast  of  this  bright  area  are  reduced. But  because  large  area in  this  image  in  the  dark. By  doing  so,  we  did  more  than  what  we  lose, because  we  have  small  area  in  bright  area. At  this  price  to  reduce  this  contrast, we  enhance  the  contrast of  the  most  area  in  this  image. Now,  this  show  image  is  blur. If  we  apply  some  proper image  processing  technique, we  can  make  this  becomes  too  sharp. From  this  input  image to  produce  this  output  image. Obviously,  it  becomes  sharper than  the  input  image. This  input  image  is  blur, but  he  is  a  sharp  image. But  at  price,  it  will generate  some  artificial  structures. At  this  price,  we  de blur  the  input  image  to  have  a  sharp  image. Now,  this  example  show  that  the  noising. This  maybe  you  can  see  you  just  show the  result  not  realistic  because here  the  input  image  show  very  strong  noise. How  can  this  output  image almost  remove  all  this  noise, but  keep  the  information  of  the  image. It  is  possible  but  use the  medium  filter  or  non  mei  filter. Be  although  the  noise  here  is  very  strong. But  the  noise  is a  sparse,  spatially  is  sparse. Based  on  this  property, we  can  design  our  filter  to  remove amplitude  very  strong but  specially  sparse  noise. Now,  this  beautifying  just  to  smooth some  details  to  produce  this  image. Restoration  and  retouch  put  and somehow  to  enhance  the  very  old  image and  put  c  in  this  image. Segmentation  has  a  widening  application. Also  in  biomedical  image, we  need  to  segment  where  is the  particular  organ  or  particular  tumor, we  need  to  separate  it to  identify  it  or  detect  it. Auto  marking  is  to hide  some  information  in  that  image. Similar  to  the  back  nodes. Bank  nodes  all  have  the  auto  marking. For  the  digital  image, we  can  also  hide  some  information. It  is  invisible, but  if  we  use  the  computer  program, we  can  re,  we  can  retrieve  this  image. This  information  inside  of  this  image. It's  called  auto  mark. Now,  the  content  tempering, this  now  deep  fake  is  very  famous. Now  the  AM  model  can generate  many  fake  image. But  before  that,  someone also  use  traditional  method to  temper  the  image  content. But  if  you  can  temper  image  content, we  can  also  develop  some  algorithm  to  detect the  image  is  tempered or  not  all  original  image. Now,  this  is  for  detection, X  three  image,  we can  detect  some  hiding  objects. Face  detection,  of  course,  very  useful, and  also  the  signature recognition  or  verification. Signature  is  also  a  image. Based  on  some  image  processing  technique, we  can  identify  the  image or  verify  the  signature, come  from  particular  person, same  as  other  signatures. This  face  recognition or  expression  recognition, example  to  show  the face  recognition  that  because the  earlier  technique  of the  facial  recition  is based  on  some  component  of  the  phase. But  now  this  deplen  use the  whole  pace  the  information, not  just  to  use  the  particular component  of  the  phase. Now,  biometrics  is  to  use  some  feature of  the  human  body  to identify  the  identity  of  the  person. Include  fingerprint, face,  signature,  palm  print, hand  iris,  and  guide  the  way  of  the  working. All  these  are  needed  to  the  image  and  video. Even  we  can  use  the  ear to  identify  a  different  person. All  this  technique  is  called  biometrics. Biometric  can  be  used  access  control to  unlock  your  mobile  phone to  do  the  purchase  and to  use  it  a  fingerprint  as  a  key. Or  we  can  even embedding  the  fingerprint  recognition into  a  smart  card. Also  the  fingerprint  can  be  also  embedded into  IC  or  passport. Right?  This  is  show  content  analysis. Given  image,  we  can somehow  separate  different  part, different  objects,  such  as where  is  a  basketball, where  is  the  person,  where  is the  takes  and  some  mines, based  on  age  and  to separate  different  parts  of this  content  of  the  image. Okay,  so  I  think  we  can  have  a  break. Then  we  will  come  to our  real  theoretic  part  from  the  topic  tool. Okay,  now  we  can  have  20  minutes  of  break. We  only  have  one  break,  right? 10  minutes. I  think  we  can  resume  our  class. Now  we  will  really  study the  content  of  this,  the  theoretical  part. The  first  topic  of the  theoretical  part  in  here  is the  topic  two  is  to  study the  LSI  system  and  transforms. Now  AI  system  is  called  menea  and  shift invariant  system  because  we study  the  image  image is  a  function  of  the  space. Corresponding  to  the  time singular  is  the  ATI, menea  and  time  invart  system. So  transformer  we  will study  the  fear  transform. Now,  this  AI  system, if  we  study  the  convolution plus  the  fear  transform, this  is  the  two  pars of  all  single  processing. If  you  have  very  sorryful understand  of  this  tool, then  you  have  no  problem  to all  other  part  in  the  single  processing. Minear  system  and  shift environ  system  is  a very,  very  important  system. Although  it  is  a  linear, somehow  you  may  say that  the  complex  system  should  be  non  linear, but  in  fact,  the  real  our  human  design  part is  an  system. Further  more  than  near networks  is  non  linear, CNN,  transformer  are  non  linear, but  The  non  parameter, we  use  the  n  to  non  parameter. Use  it  is  a  menial  one. The  non  linear  part  is just  the  fixed  activation  function. It  is  not  able. Non  part  in  the  near  network, or  near  network  is  anear  part. Here  will  show  the  importance of  the  linear  system. Okay.  The  non  linear  operation can  only  apply  to  some  specific  task. We  can  design  some  non linear  operation  or  ninear  system for  very  specific  parts. Then  for  different  specific  task, we  need  to  design  different  ninear  system. Now,  for  the  massive  processing, such  as  the  arg  model, we  have  hundreds  of  the  mails. It  is  a  massive  of  the  computation. For  all  this  system, what  our  human  design  can  only handle  the  linear  sear  part. A  example  is  all  this  AI  model, this  deep  learning, the  non  linear  activation  function is  a  fixed,  not  able. Right?  Okay.  Now,  Here to  study  the  AI  system, we  will  study  meaning the  convolution  and  the  fuel  transform. This  is  two  fundamental  and  two  pines in  all  single  poss. But  all  this  two  part  convolution and  feel  transform  is  based  on one  idea  is  a  so  called  single  decomposition. We  decompose  any  atar  single  or any  atar  image  into  some of  very  basic  functions. If  you  understand  this sing  decomposition  image  decomposition, we  can  very  easily  to understand  what  is  the  compion, what  is  the  f.  Now,  in  this  topic, we  will  also  study the  image  sampling  converts a  continuous  image  into a  discrete  image  or  digital  image. I  will  include  this  part  here  is  two  reasons. The  first  reason  is many  student  to  study  the  single  processing, find  that  this  sampling  theory is  very  difficult  to  understand. Why  we  need  the  impasse? We  need  the  impulse  training  or  impulse to  multiply  the  continuous  signal. In  fact,  here  I  will  clarify some  technique  here  in the  sampling  theory  to make  it  a  very  straightforward  approach. Another  very  important  sense  is the  sampling  is  very  important because  it  bridge  the  continuous  doming with  the  digital  doming. Although  now  all  image, all  media  is  digital, originally  captured  already  digital, but  we  still  need some  analysis  method  or tools  for  the  continuous  function. This  is  because  for  the  continuous  function, we  have  rich  mathematic  tools, such  as  the  differentiation  and  integration. For  the  discrete  time  sorry, or  the  discrete  array, we  don't  have  much  mathematic  tools  to  use. Just  give  you  an  example. For  many  different  functions, we  can  very  easily  to  get what  is  its  differentiation  result, what  is  its  integration  result. But  given  synchence  of the  number  or  different  function of  the  discrete  function, what  is  the  result  of the  summation?  We  don't  have. It  is  very  difficult  to get  the  close  results. But  for  the  continuous  doing, we  have  the  integration and  differentiate  differentiation. This  provide  us  a  powerful  tools to  mas  the  single  or  derive  our  method. So  this  is  why  although all  this  processing  is  digital  is  a  discrete, but  we  still  need  to  use the  mathematic  tools  to handle  the  continuous  functions. Still  this  continuous  functions in  the  analysis  and  design, it  is  very  important  to do  the  theoretical  study  is  very  important. This  sampling  theory,  will bridge  the  continuous  doming and  the  digital  doming. This  is  why  I  will  study  this  topic. As  I  mentioned  that, this  two  pins  convolution and  the  far  transform in  all  single  processing and  the  image  processing  is  based on  our  understanding  of  the  decomposition, decompose  any  at  function into  some  of  basic  functions. To  start  the  singular  decomposition, we  first  need  to  define  a  basic  single. For  the  convolution  it come  from  all  originated, decompose  any  at  function into  some  or  integration  of  the  pass. If  you  understand  that, then  the  convolution  is  very  straightforward. Now,  to  define  a  basic  element  image  here, we  define  a  pass  data  x y.  Mathematic  definition  is  extremely  simple. It  just  equals  to  one. At  the  origin,  x, y  x  to  zero  and  zero  otherwise. This  is  a  very  simple  function, very  simple  deflation. If  we  want  to  visualize  it, if  we  have  a  image image  plane  center  is  zero, zero,  x  and  y  is  zero  at  the  center. Then  only  at  this  point, center,  the  i  value  is  one. All  other  pixes  are  zero.  That's  all. This  is  the  impasse. It  is  one,  not  the  infinity. For  the  continuous  function, the  impasse  deflation  must  be  the  infinity. Also  many  students  somehow  feel  trouble. Why  we  define  a  value  infinity. Now,  here,  I  just  help  you to  understand  for  the  continuous  function, why  this  value  must  be  a  infinity. You  just  think  about  for a  continuous  function. We  define  a  continuous  funion. If  we  have  only  one  single  value, a  none  zero  or  other  a  zero. This  single  value  cannot  be  finite  value. It  must  be  infinity. It  cannot  be  a  finite  value in  continuous  storming,  just  one  point. But  for  the  discrete  function, it  is  a  possible. We  have  one  point  is  a  finite  value. Of  course,  later,  in  the  sampling  theory, we  further  study  this  impulse in  the  continuous  union. Anyway,  for  digital  image, impasse  is  defined  very simply  just  one  and  zero. We  define  such  a  basic  functions or  basic  image. It  is  very  useful  because  the  value  one and  zero  has  have  very  nice  property. The  nice  property  is  one. Much  micon  is  this. No  change.  Right?  The  nice  property of  zero  is  zero, multiply  anything  is  zero,  zero, infinite  number  of  zero, some  together  is  also  zero. Zero.  So  with  other  value is  just  this  value.  There's  no  change. Okay.  Now  just  keep  in  mind this  nice  property  of  one  and  zero  here. We  define  impasse  function is  two  value  one  and  zero. Now,  after  we  define  a  very  simple  functions, I  believe  that  this mathematic  formula  is  very  simple. Visualize  it  is  also  very  easily. Now,  if  we  have  such  a  function  data  x  y, then  we  can  use  this  function  to  define any  abitar  pixel  with bitary  qui  value  where all  other  pixel  are  zero. For  example,  given  a  image, if  this  image  has non  zero  value  at  position  I  and  G, and  all  other  peaks  are  zero, then  this  image  can  be  defined F  x  y  for  this  image  is  c times  Delta  x  minus  y  minus g.  Obviously  theta  x  minus  i, y  minus  j,  the  first  argument will  be  zero  if  x equals  to  i.  Y minus  j  is  zero  if  y  equals  to. If  x  and  y  equals  to  i  and  j, then  this  is  zero, zero,  theta  z  zero  by  definition. Dt  00  is. Multiply  c  is  c.  Otherwise,  it's  zero. This  is  a  very  straightforward. We  can  use  the  Delta  x  y  to specify  ending  pixes  with  three  g  value. Here,  the  g  value  is  C.  The  position  of this  pixer  is  I  and  g.  This  is  pretty  car. Now,  here,  maybe  you  will  see  that. Although  we  see  here  is  I  and the  G.  This  I  and the  G  can  be  different  value, can  be  any  ppoion. X  and  Y  is  also  can  be  different  values. What  is  difference  between X  and  I  between  y  and  the  G? It  appears  to  be  I  I  and  the  G  are also  variable  because  it  can  be  any  it  value, can  be  changed  in  this  vue. But  I  and  the  G  are totally  different  from  X  and  Y. Because  X  and  y appear  at  the  both  side  of  this  equation. X  and  Y  are  variable  of  this  equation. Well,  I  and  the  g  only appear  in  one  side  of  the  equation. I  and  the  g  is  not the  variable  of  this  equation. It  is  just  although  we  can  take a  different  value  to indicate  a  different  polation, but  I  and  the  g  is not  variable  in  this  equation. Variable  of  this  equation  is  x  and  y. We  see  I  and  the  G, although  it  can  take  different  value, we  see  this  I  and  the  G  are  constant. Because  I  and  the  G, will  be  same  once  we  specify  I  and  the  G, it  will  be  no  change with  the  change  of  the  X  and  Y. That  means  for  all  X  and  Y  value, we  use  the  same  I  and  the  G. We  call  this  I  and  the  G  are  constant. X  and  Y  are  variable. Similarly,  C  is  a  constant  because  it  has no  change  for  all  different  value of  the  variable  X  and  Y. For  example,  from  here, we  can  also  understand. Although  this  I  and  G, we  can  take  different  value, then  C  can  also  take  different  value. If  at  a  different  position, this  c  are  different, but  anyway  this  c  is  equals  to f  g.  If  x  and  y  equals  to  I  and  G, then  this  function  value  f is  equals  to  c.  In  fact, this  c  is  same  as  F g.  But  if  we take  this  I  and  FIG  into  this  formula, I  and  the  G  are  not  variable. It's  just  constant  against  this  X  and  the  Y. We  call  this  pixel  as the  shift  and  scaled  impasse, because  original  impasse  is  here. Minus  minus  we  shift this  impasse  into  this  position. This  is  a  shift  impasse. We  scare  this  impasse  is multiplied  by  C.  This  shift  and scaled  impasse  represented  by the  original  impasse  function  can  be used  to  specify  any  bitary  pixes. At  the  bitary  position  bit  g  u  c. Then  because  this  function f  xy  is  only  one  point  is  90, or  other  zero,  and ending  image  always  consist  of  meaning  pixes. We  can  use  this  pix  sum  over all  positions  to  form  a  image. We  can  represent  ending  at  image  f  x  y  by a  sum  of  shift  and  scared  impasse  functions. Then  this  is  formula. One  s  don't  scared  by this  minus  infinity  and  infinity. We  use  minus  infinity  and  infinity  to  make this  formula  general  for  all  case. Now,  given  if  the  image  is  finite  size  from on  z  from  minus  to, then  we  can  just  reduce  this  infinity  into. That's  all.  Be  outside  of  this  from minus  to,  F  zero. We  can  very  easily simplify  this  one  into  a  finite  value, depends  on  the  size  of  the  image. But  we  use  infinity to  make  this  formula  general, can  use  it  to  represent  sens. Now,  this  is  a  single  decompilation. Here  is  a  image  decompilation. We  decompose  aiming  arbitrary  image  into some  of  the  impasse and  scaled  shift  the  impasse. Now,  here  you  may  have  some  doubt, why  we  make  a  simple  so  complex. This  F  x  y, you  see  it  is  only  a  impasse, but  we  still  use  F  g.  What is  the  difference  between  F  X  Y  and  FIG? Why  we  change  this  X  and  Y  into NG  and  some  meaning  items. Make  simples  so  complicated. Here,  I  already  mentioned in  the  previous  nights, I  g  and  x  y  are  different. In  this  equation,  x and  y  appear  in  the  both  side. They  are  variable  in  this  equation, where  I  and  G  only  appear  in this  one  side,  not  appear  in  here. I  and  the  G  are  not  variable. For  example,  here,  after  the  summation, then  I  and  the  G  disappear. We  have  no  more  I  and  G  after  the  sum. So  I  and  G  is just  a  wrong  index  in  this  summation. It  is  not  the  variable. Okay,  here,  we  understand this  single  decomposition or  image  decomposition. In  this  summation  or  this  summation, items  is  just  one  pixel with  the  position  I and  G  with  the  green  level  A. Is  just  one  pixer. Because  this  one  indicate just  one  pixer  is  non  zero  has  e  value, or  other  position  are  zero, so  we  can  sum  all  them  together. Because  one  term  will  not affect  a  lather  term in  this  summation  because they  are  at  different  positions  and one  term  is  only  non  z  at  one  position. So  we  can  simply  sum  them  together. Anyway,  this  expression  shows  that  one by  pixel  can  be  indicated  by  items  here. W  S  over  all  pixels  can  form  any  three  image. Why  we  can  sum  them  together? Because  we  define  this  function, is  on  all  zero  outside  of  these  positions. We  can  all  of  them,  no  problem. This  is  a  single  decompilation. Now,  of  course,  here  show  an  example. If  the  image  size  is  11  by  11 on  constant  non  z within  this  minus  five  to  five  then, this  expression,  we  show  here, but  this  one  is  we  have same  for  all  pixels  within  this  image. Now,  after  we  sent it  is  very  intuitive  very  straightforward. We  can  represent  any  or image  by  this  summation  this  amount, all  this  more  general  in  this  amount. Then  we  will  study  the  processing  system, how  to  process  the  image, process  this  f  x  y  s  as  process  this  amount. Because  they  are  they  are equal  for  all  value  of  x  and  y. From  here,  we  can  see  image  goes  through a  system  to  process it  to  generate  the  output  image, g  x  y,  represented  by t  transform  or  mapping the  input  image  into  output  the  image. Now,  we  replace this  input  image  by  this  expression. No  problem.  Because  previous  night we  see  F  x  y  equals  to  this  summation. From  here,  we  can  say  if  the  process  is aniar  operation  is  aniar  operation. Then  we  know  a menial  operation  of  the  submission is  equal  to  the  sum  of the  menial  operation  of  each  item. This  is  the  property  of  the  menial  operation. If  this  is  anial  operation, then  this  t  can  go to  inside  of  this  submission. Also  menial  o  menial  operation  on  this  y. This  is  a  constant against  the  variable  x  and  y. This  F  IG  can  put  before  thisnial  operation. That  means  menial  operation  to  process the  scaled  function  is equals  to  this  scaling  after  the  process. All  this  just  come  from  if this  key  processing  is  amia  processing. This  is  very  straightforward. But  the  physic  meaning  is  great. We  convert  a  processing  of the  whole  image  into with  just  processing  a  single  pixel. Here  we  also  decompose  the  processing  of the  whole  image  into process  one  single  pixer. Right?  Now,  again, because  if  we  processing  one  single  pixel, then  we  know  if  this  processing is  so  called  shift  environment. Based  on  the  property  of the  shift  vi  process a  shift  singular  is  as  process a  shift  then  shift  the  s. We  can  use  the  processing  Delta x  y  to  gate the  processing  of  this  shift  pixel. Because  we  very  often  use  the  processing of  a  single  impasse, then  we  just  denote  or define  the  processing  of  impasse  as  H X  Y.  T  Delta  x  Y  is  defined  as x  Y.  H  XY is  a  processing  result  of  one  impasse. Missing  one  bracket. We  define  this  one  as  a  H  X  Y. The  name  of  this  X  Y  is  impulse  response. This  is  a  pritic  near y  is  called  impulse  response. This  H  XY  is a  system  response  to  the  input  is  a  impulse. The  response  always  means  the  output. It  is  the  output  when  input  is  a  impulse. It  is  a  system  response  to  the  impulse  input. We  call  this  H  X  Y  as  the  impulse  response. So  if  it  is  a  shift  variant, so  process  this  shift  impasse  is  same as  we  just  processing  original  impasse, then  we  take  the  shift. This  is  also  pretty  clear, just  come  from  the  property of  the  shift  invariant. Now  here,  don't  forget  what  is  H  x  y, is  called  impulses  bonds. This  impulses  bond  is  output  of the  system  if  for  input  is  impasse. Now,  all  this  appears to  be  very  straightforward. Then  if  we  have  this  very  straightforward, now  if  we  replace  this  Delta  x minus  y  mi  by  H  x  minus  y  g, then  we  have  this  formula. Is  just  to  replace  this  processing  by  this H.  This  is  also  very  straightforward. This  one,  we  define this  operation  as  the  convolution between  F  and  H. Because  we  very  often  use  it. We  define  this  as a  convolution  process, or  convolution  operation. We  use  H  XY  to  operate the  convolution  on  F  X  Y. We  just  define  this  expression  as the  convolution  between  f  and g.  We  have  the  convolution. From  here,  we  can  see  convolution is  very  straightforward. If  the  processing  is  SI  system, then  the  output  is  always  equals  to the  input  convolve  with the  impulse  response  of  the  system. Impulse  response  of  the  system, uniquely  specify  any  as  I  system. Because  if  we  know  the impulse  response  of  the  system, we  know  everything  of  this  system. Because  for  any  input  image, we  only  need the  impulse  response  of  the  system, then  we  can  get  what  is  output. Impulse  response,  unique  As  I  system, or  completely  characterize the  AI  system  by  impulse  response. Now,  from  here  we  define  it  is  convolution. Mathematically,  it  is  very  easy  to prove  it  that  convolution  is  commutable. A  convolve  with  H  is  equals  to  H  convolve f.  Similarly  to the  multiplication,  they  are  commutable. If  we  exchange  two, then  this  formula  also  can  change  as H  Ig  times  A,  so  they  are  equal. The  two  are  equal. This  is  all  convolution. Come  from,  we  express any  function  into  some  of  the  impulse. Then  very  naturally,  we  have this  formula  to  compute  output. But  given  input  image and  the  impulse  response  of  the  system. Don't  forget  what  is  the  impulse  response. Impulse  response  is  the  output  of  the  system. F  input  is  impulse. Sample  one  pixes  at  the  origin. Now,  we  have  some  property of  this  convolution very  similar  to  the multiplication  commutable. I  convolve  the  convolved  with  the. This  diagram  to  show  if  we  have  two  process, we  can  exchange  the  order  of this  two  process.  They  are  equivalent. Here,  I  just  use copy  from  the  single  processing. It  is  one  dimensional  function of  the  n.  But  if we  change  it  into  H  x  y,  they  are  exactly. Anyway,  they  are  computable. Now,  not  all  operation two  operation  cascade connected  is  commutable. Here,  we  show  that  for AI  system,  it  is  a  commutable. Now,  for  example,  if  you  have  a  gun, have  a  ballet,  you  have  two  operations, put  the  ballet  into  the  gun. A  second  operations  fire  the  gun. Now  if  you  exchange  the  two  operation, the  results  are  totally  different,  right? Again.  But  for  ASI,  they  are  computable. That  means  two  processing, first  step  and  two  second  step, we  can  exchange  them no  problem,  the  equivalent. Now,  the  convolution  is has  a  pro  has  associative  property. Here,  show  the  meaning  of  associative. Now,  this  associative although  mathematically  is just  the  bracket  here and  change  the  bracket  here. But  in  the  practice, it  has  great  meaning. It  means  that  given  an  input  image, if  our  system  design a  system  met  process this  input  image  by  two  state. First  system,  then  output  of the  first  system  go  to  the  sychno  system. Then  output  of  sychno  system  is a  final  final  output. But  this  associative  means  that Such  a  two  stat  of  the  processing can  be  can  be  converted, the  2s2s  can  be converted  into  just  one stat  of  the  processing. Before  we  receive  the  input  image, we  can  first  convolve this  impulse  sponse  together into  one  impulse  sponse. After  we  receive  the  input  image in  large  number  of  the  input  image, we  we  only  need  to  do one  convolution  because  this  convolution can  be  computed  before. Offline  to  compute  it. But  this  is  only  for  AI  system. Here,  based  on  that,  we  can also  understand  for  system, it  is  not  a  linear  system. This  associative  does  not  hold. So  from  here,  we  can  also  further understand  why  in  the  neural  networks. Between  different  neyers,  we  must use  non  meniar  activation  function. If  the  activation  function between  two  nyer  is  a  linear, then  two  nyls  is  just  equivalent  to  one  yer. You  design  100  layer  of the  neural  network  if the  activation  marching  or  a  linear  combion, it  is  just  equivalent  to  just  a  single  neyer. No  difference  because the  meniar  operation  here  is  associative. Now,  of  course, this  distributive  this  submission, convolve  can  go  inside. That  means  for  two per  operation  and  the  input  is  the  same  as just  one  system  with  just  some the  impulse  response  of this  two  pero  connected  system. Now,  all  this  is  only  for  I  system. Now,  we  need  because this  system  is  just  the  convolution of  the  input  with  the  impulse  response. Impulse  response  is  fully  specified  system. We  need  to  really understand  what  is  the  impulse  response. First  of  all,  never  forget. Impulse  response  is  the  output  image for  input  image  is just  a  impulse,  very  simple. Because  of  that,  don't  forget. Impulse  response  is  also  a  image. Impulses  bonds  of  the  image  possession  system is  also  a  image. Although  it's  the  image, but  usually  compare  to the  real  image  has  size, 1,000  by  1,000  or  100  by  one  and  this impulses  bonds  for  the  f for  the  system  usually  has  small  size, such  as  three  by  35  by  five  or  11  by  11. Now  in  the  modern  N  convolution  network, all  convolution  use the  small  size  three  by  three. No  use  a  larger  size. But  have  you  ever  thought  about  why? You  can  think  why? At  the  earlier  stage  of  the. Many  people  also  design the  convolutional  kernel  is  larger  size. But  now  we  go  to the  arg  model  as three  by  three,  e  one  by  one. Why  don't  you  use  the  ger  size? You  can  think  about  why,  the  answer  will  be given  in  the  end  of  this  course to  study  the  Okay. So  original  definition  of  the  convolution, the  summation  is  infinity. This  infinity,  don't  be  scared. This  is  just  make  this  formula  general. In  the  impulse  response has  only  non  zero  for  finite  size, because  impulse  response  is  also  a  image. But  this  is  a  kernel  is  a  small  size. Then  because  small  size  means  if  we assume  that  the  impulse  response, this  image  outside  of  the  size  is  all  zero, then  we  can  immediately reduce  this  infinity  to just  the  size  of  the  filter  size  of  the  s. Again,  here  are  zero  sum  with  any,  no  change. Zero  has  no  contribution  to  that  summation. Can  we  can  immediately  reduce into  a  finite  limit  in  this  summation. Now,  again,  to  understand the  impulse  response. For  example,  this  example show  a  very  simple  operation. For  example,  given  input  image  f  x  y, we  want  to  suppress  the  random  noise, or  we  want  to  smooth  the  image so  that  the  image  soft. We  do  a  noc  average  moving  average  process and  the  input  image. That  means  a  pixel  in the  output  image  is  produced  by  the  sum  of the  corresponding  pixel  in the  input  image  with its  four  neighborhood  pixels  or  average, that  we  have  acal  average moving  to  all  pixels. Now,  this  process  is described  by  this  English  sentence. Then  what  is  the  mathematic  formula to  show  this  process? That  means  what  is  the  Gx  Y output  the  image  given  input  image  f  x  y? Based  on  this  description, it  is  pretty  clear. The  mathematic  expression  of this  very  simple  process is  g  x  y  equals  to  the  input  pixel, same  position  f  x  y, some  with  its  four  neighborhood  pixels. The  fix  right  pix,  the  pixel  above  it, the  pixel  below  it,  depends on  how  you  define  it  anyway. It  is  just  this  expression. This  is  a  mathematic  expresion to  show  this  process. Obviously,  this  process  is  I 60  because  for  all  pix  what  positions, we  always  do  the  same  principles. The  output  is  the  average of  the  input  in  the  local  area. For  all  pixels  will  do  the  same  process. Is  a  shift  environment. This  summation  is  linear  operation. Now,  this  is  the  System. Now,  in  System, the  output  is  always  equal  to  input, convolve  with  impulse  response. This,  this  expression  must be  able  to  express in  terms  of  the  convolution. So  then  what  is  this  convolution. Obviously,  we  only  use  the  input  image at  x  and  y  and  x  minus  y  and  plus  and  so  one. In  the  convolution  formula. We  can  reduce  the  summation into  just  from  minus  one  to  one. Because  here  the  x  minus  on  plus. This  is  the  convolution  formula g  x  y  equals  to  h  x  y  convolved  with  f  x  y. This  is  the  definition  of  the  convolution. Based  on  the  size  of  the  xy  on  non  zero within  three  by  three is  f  minus  one  to  one  is  the three,  the  three  by  three. Now  then  in  this  convolution, expression  of  the  output  from  the  input, what  is  the  input  respond? The  impulse  response  from  here, this  expression  we  see  all coefficient  of  the  f  of  one. Input  the  image  all  multiplied  by  one. If  you  just  simply  think, then  the  x  y  impulse  response  should  be a  constant  within  the  field  window three  by  three  fit  window. Then  this  one  is  one. Because  if  this  is  a  constant  one, then  we  know  this  submission will  be  some  of  the  nine  items. But  here,  it  is  a  sum  of  just  five  items, not  some  of  the  nine  items. This  expression  will  this  Sigma  some, and  then  another  over  sum together  this  is  submission  of the  nine  different  items. But  in  our  diplion  of  this  processing, it  is  some  of  the  five  items. S,  H  is  not a  constant  y  within  the  field  of  window. Then  what  is  the  impulses,  x  y. Now,  don't  forget  what  the  impulse  response. Impulse  response  is  output  image if  input  image  is  a  impasse. We  can  very  easily  get  what  is the  impulse  response  of  this  process, change  the  F  into  data. Then  G  is  h.  Analytically, the  impulse  response  is this  pas  comme  we  change the  input  image  f  into  into  a  impasse. Then  the  output  G  is  the  impulse  response. This  is  a  correct  impasse  response of  such  a  processing  system. How  to  represent  this  impulse  response by  image,  or  filter  mask. Impulse  response  is  image. We  also  call  the  filter  mask, or  filter  spatial  coefficient. Now,  from  this  expression, we  know  impulse  response  of this  system  is  of  the  five  impulse. We  can  directly  to  gate. This  is  a  filter  mask. It's  the  five  impasse.  Okay. Now,  from  this  understanding, you  should  be  very  easily derogate  one  from  a  lather. Other  one,  you  should be  able  to  mitigate  what is  a  form  of the  representation  of  this  processing  system. Now,  to  what  the  impulse  responds, to  understand  what  is the  meaning  of  the  convolution. Now,  next  one,  we  will  show a  numeric  example  to how  to  compute  the  convolution. Now,  for  example,  numerically  given  image, we  have  different  pixes with  different  show  here. This  is  F  x  y. Now,  the  impulse  response is  also  filter  kernel. It's  also  a  image, it's  a  three  by  image  given here  we  have nine  different  coefficient  of  this  filter. It  is  also  a  impulse  reponse. Now,  given  this  tool, how  to  compute  the  output  image. To  compute  the  output  image. The  very  safe  way  is  just strictly  strictly following  this  masematic  definition. Now,  for  example,  if  we  want  to  compute  f  x, y,  at  x  x  to  y  x  to  three. That  means  given  this  input  image, I  x  x  to  three, y  equals  to  four  x  x  four, y  x  to  four,  then  is  this  pixel. What  is  the  output  image  pixel  value at  this  position,  g44? Now,  to  compute  the  convolution, we  just  simply  following  this  one. If  we  want  to  compute  g44, we  just  replace  this  x and  y  by  four  and  four. Then  to  compute  this  summation. Then  based  on  this  I  and  the  G  is running  index  from  minus  one  to  y, what  is  the  H  value?  What  is  the  value? That.  Just  following  this  one. Following  this  mathematic  expression, it  is  nothing  difficult. Now,  here,  one  sense  we  should  take note  is  in  the  definition  of  the  convolution. We  have  H  value  and  F  value. But  for  the  function, the  index  is  I  and  g, but  for  f  is  minus  I  and minus  g.  Because  of  that, we  can  see,  for  example, this  H  one  and  one  correspond. If  we  define  this  origin  is  zero  here. This  is  a  minus  one  minus, this  is  y  and  y.  H  one  is  nine, nine  should  multiply  by  x  minus  y  minus  g. If  this  is  minus  one  minus  is  this  value. Nine  should  multiply  by  five. Well,  one  should  multi  by c.  Here  we  have  nine  multiplied  by  five, one  multiply  c  even. This  is  very  straightforward confirmed  deflation in  the  two  functions, I  and  g  in, but  in  A  is  a  minus  I  minus  g.  Of  course, to  understand  that,  we  know  that convolution  process is  one  function,  we  meet  flip. Then  multiply each  corresponding  pix  of  value, then  sum  them  together. This  flip  come  from  this  I  and G  are  different  sign  in  the  two  functions. Now,  of  course,  in  the  deep  learning in  the  scene  and  convolution  on  your  network, many  authors  to  represent  the  convolution. Don't  do  the  flip. Don't  do  the  flip  here. That  means  don't  do  the  flip  that means  here  plus  plus. Also  many  s  in  the  past  ask  me, we  should  do  the  flip  or  not  do  the  flip. Now,  obviously, from  the  definition  of  the  convolution, we  must  flip  one  of  them. Because  this  I  and  g  here  is  minus  minus. Geometrically  to  understand  that  we  need to  flip  one  of  these  two  functions, and  then  to  multiply corresponding because  the  n  sum  them  together. But  why  is  the  scene? Many  people  just  ignore  the  flip? Now,  if  you  ignore  the  flips, strictly  speaking,  it  is  not  convolution. But  in  the  scene  and  if  you  flip  it, or  don't  flip  it, does  not  make  any  difference. Why?  Because  if  you  flip  it, don't  flip  it  consistently  over all  process  in  the  learning and  in  the  prediction. Then  it  will  produce  exactly  same  result. Because  in  this  filter  value is  learned  from  the  data  set.  Is  learn. If  in  the  learning  process  you  flip, then  in  the  prediction  you  flip,  no  problem. If  in  the  learning  process  you  don't  flip, then  in  the  prediction  also  don't  flip, the  result.  Okay? You  understand  that?  Because  you flip  or  not  flip  does  not  make any  difference  because  any  way  this  value  is determined  by  the  learning  process. Okay.  Of  course,  totally  wrong. If  you  are  in  the  training  process, you  don't  flip,  but in  the  prediction  you  flip, then  E  L  wrong. Now,  although  this  convolution is  very  straightforward, we  can  very  easily  just  a  few  step, we  can  get  this  convolution  formula from  the  singular  decomposition. And  a  singular  decposion is  also  very  straightforward. But  many  students  find this  convolution,  very  difficult. What  I  understand  is the  difficult  come  from  here. This  I  and  G  X  and  Y  are  totally  different. X  and  Y  is  a  variable. While  I  and  G  is  a  rounding  index. We  are  here  to  compute the  convolution  for  a  single  value of  X  and  Y, the  I  and  G  will  meet  some  overall. That  means  to  compute a  single  value  of  the  output, we  need  all  value  of  the  input and  all  value  of  these  two  functions. From  here,  we  can  see  that, we  utilize  all  value  of the  H  and  all  value of  the  inside  of  the  filter. But  this  one  only compute  one  value  of  the  output. Output  the  G.  This make  many  students  feel  it's  difficult. But  this  is  very  clear  in  this  formula. I  and  G,  we  need  some  overall. Original  definition  is  from minus  infinity  to  infinity. We  need  to  utilize  all different  venues  in  this  sum. But  all  this  vue  we  utilize  it, some  them  together  only  produce one  basic  venue  of  e  and,  single  output. Okay.  But  concept this  convolution  is  very  straightforward. Again,  if  nobody  use this  convolution  concept in  the  martin  earning, now  we  don't  have  any  AI  system. We  don't  have  any  AI  model. The  marche  earning  are  not  popular. Now,  in  the  week  eight  or Week  eight  study  why  this  convolution. Borrow  this  convolution  in the  learning  make  big  difference. This  convolution  in  the  machine learning  revolution the  way  of  the  machine to  learn  from  the  data. In  what  aspect,  in  principle, it  make  big  changes. Okay.  Now,  I  trust  you fully  understand  what is  the  convolution,  right? I  think  we  will  stop  here. Next  week,  we  will  study a  lager  pins  in  the  single  position, the  full  year  transform. Thank  you  for  your  attention.
