Good  evening.  Last  week, we  start  to  what  is  a  machine  version? The  first  three  weeks  we  focus  on the  human  percept  image and  the  visual  information so  that  we  need  image  enhancement, H  ecization,  and  smoothing  the  image, de  noising  and  so  on. Then  next  week  we start  the  machine  sing  part. We  will  see  how  the  machine can  understand  the  visual  information. Basically,  the  machine  can only  do  some  of  the  comparison. Comparison  is  somehow  the  matching the  input  with  the  stored  template, or  the  sample  sample  in  our  data  set. So  then  we  come  from the  comparison  to  the  classification because  one  type  of the  object  may  represent by  many  different  variations, different  samples  of  the  training  data. So  we  convert  this  simple  comparison  or simple  matching  to  the  classification. Then  we  introduce  the  nest  classifier,  right? So  at  the  end  of  the  next  week, we  introduced  that  for the  nearest  able  class  fh,  basically, we  need  to  compute  the  distance  between the  input  pattern  with  all  samples. In  ma  application,  we  may  have a  huge  number  of  the  tining  samples. Such  kind  of  the  computation could  be  troublesome. To  simplify  each,  one  sample  solution  is we  compute  the  center of  the  sample  for  each  class, and  then  the  comparison  is  just  to  compile the  input  query  data with  the  centers  of  each  class. So  this  will  greatly simplify  the  computation. As  a  result,  our  decision  rule or  prediction  is  based  on the  minimum  distance  between the  input  data  and  the  center  of  each  class, and  which  class  has  a  minimum  distance, then  we  classify  the  input  into  which  class. So  this  is  called minimum  distance  classify  Now, the  minimum  distance  class  to  do  that, we  need  to  compute  the class  center  or  the  mean of  the  training  data  of  each  class. Here,  give  a  formal  description, what  is  the  mean  or  the  center  of  the  class. Basically,  if  we  have  a  set  of  the twining  data  X  one  up  to  x  Q, then  this  is  a  formula  to  compute  the  mean. Of  course,  this  is  everyone  knows that  the  average  of the  twining  sample  within  the  class  G, then  it  is  the  mean  of the  class  or  the  center  of  the  class  G. Now,  this  computation,  of  course,  is  offline. Before  we  receive  the  input, we  can  pre  compute the  mean  or  the  center  of  every  class. This  in  of  the  computation  means  to compute  some  parameter  based on  this  training  data. This  is  already  belong  to  machine  learning. Machine  learning  is  not  a  magic. This  is  very,  very  simple  machine  learning. Basic  concept  of  the  machine  learning  is  just from  the  training  data to  compute  some  parameter. So  here,  this  parameter  is  class  mean. Each  class  has  its  mean. This  is  already  machine  learning. So  that  based  on  this  machine learned  clust  mean, we  can  compute  the  minimum  distance between  the  input  unknown  input  with clust  center  or  mean  to  find the  minimum  distance  to make  our  prediction  or  decision. Now,  here  show  that  distance, of  course,  is  a  equity  distance. Equity  distance is  a  natural  distance,  is  a  visi. It's  a  physical  distance  between  two  points. We  can  very  easy  to  understand  that. Then  we  will  study  what  is the  limitations  if  we  just  use this  QD  distance as  the  classification  decision. What  is  the  possible  problem  or  limitations. Here  to  compute  them  distance  between the  input  query  pattern  with  the  class  mean, we  only  utilize  the  class  mean  vectors of  the  training  data. This  may  not  be  sophisticated. It  may  have  limited  or  may have  some  drawbacks  or  some  problem. Now  here  show  a  possible  problem. To  visualize  this  problem, we  use  one  dimensional  data. Suppose  every  trainee  sample has  only  one  single  venue. Now,  different  tine  sample, the  venue  are  different  here  indicated by  a  number  in  this  number  axis. Suppose  the  green  dot is  the  training  data  of  one  class, the  red  cross  is a  training  data  of  the  other  class. Now,  based  on  this  training  data of  this  two  class. So  given  input  data  received  by the  team  com  machine to  do  the  classification, if  we  apply  the minimum  UCTV  distance  classifi, we  just  compute  the  distance between  the  known  this  black  circle, unknown  we  just  compare  the  distance  between the  unknown  data  with the  two  class  center  auto  class  wings,  right? Now,  from  these  two  examples, it  clearly  show  that, this  two  distance  show  that this  input  data  is closer  to  the  center  of  this  read  class. If  we  use  UCD  distance, we  will  classify  this  unknown  data, this  black  circle  as  the  red  class, because  this  D  one  compute  this distance  is  smaller  than  D  two.  D  two  here. D  two  is  smaller  than  D  one. So  Based  on this  minimum  equally  distinct classify  we  are  classified, this  input  data  into  the  red  class. Now,  from  this  example,  intuitively, we  can  see  is  this classification  correct  or  not? I  definitely  correct  or  not? The  X  should  be  correctly classified  as  which  class  red  or  green? Now,  from  the  minimum  distance  class, C  distance  class  f  e  will classified  to  the  red  class. But  if  we  utilize  the  first  merest  class, then  this  input  this  black  circle will  be  classified  into the  green  class  because the  merest  training  sample is  this  one  to  the  input. Based  on  that,  it  will classified  into  the  green  class, not  the  red  class. This  two  class  fh will  produce  different  results. Then  which  one  is  reasonable? Which  one  is  correct? Which  one  will  be  beta? Which  classification  result  will  I  be  beta? Now,  from  here,  it  may  be very  difficult  to  judge  it. But  what  I  plot  here  to  visualize this  problem  does  that go  through  the  extreme  case. What  I  want  to  use  this  example  to show  is  that  this  two  class, besides  the  class  class  mean, we  have  the  distribution of  the  training  data. The  distribution  of  the  training  data around  center  could  be  very  narrow. Just  all  training  data are  concentrated  this  center. But  the  data  could  be  also  widely distributed  against  this  center. This  is  a  two  different  case. Now,  in  this  two  different  case, we  can  imagine  that  even  this  input is  close  to  this  center  class  center. If  all  training  data  we know  is  very  close  to  the  center. A  t  bit  far  away  from  the  center, there  is  no  training  data. If  this  training  data  is  representative, it  shows  that  it  is unlikely  the  data  of the  t  class  will  be  here. Unlikely.  Be  all  our  known  training  data all  are  closely  around  the  center. Well,  another  class,  the  data are  far  away  distributed  from  the  center. In  such  a  case,  we  will  see that  even  for  some  place, it  is  far  away  from  this  class  center, but  it  could  be  come from  this  green  class  because  naturally, the  data  has  a  very  flat  distribution,  right? That  means  if  we  use some  technique  terms,  we  will  say  that. Although  this  point  is close  to  this  class  center, but  the  probability  here, the  data  we  are  belong  to  this  class  is  very small  because  all  training  data is  very  close  to  the  center. For  a  position  far  away  from  it, the  probability  is  very,  very  known. Now,  for  a  large  class, because  the  training  data is  flatly  distributed. Even  for  some  place  far  away  from  the  center, the  probability  may  still  has some  visible  values  or  large  venues. This  is  understandable. Now,  here  we  find  some  problem  if  we  only  use this  CD  san  class  here. Now,  if  we  find  this  problem, how  to  solve  the  problem. Again,  to  solve  the  problem, we  use  some  of  the  normalization. We  should  normalize this  two  data  distribution into  some  kind  of  the  standard  one. How  to  do  such  normalization, we  can  see  that  if all  data  are  concentrate  to  the  center, then  this  data  standard dvariation  will  be  small. If  the  data  is  somehow  flatly distributed  in  a  white  ranging, then  the  data  standard deviation  will  be  larger. A  very  intuitive  way  is  we normalize  the  UC  distance  between the  input  into  the  two  center  by the  standard  deviation  of the  class  training  data. That  if  we  normalize the  equity  dance  by  stand  deviation, or  normalize  the  square  of  the  equity  by the  variance  variance  is the  square  of  the  standard  deviation. To  use  such  kind  of  the  normalized  distance, then  in  this  visualized  case, we  will  see  that  this D  root  d  one  will  smaller  than  root  D  two. If  you  based  on  such  kind of  the  normalized  distance, this  input  will  be classified  into  the  green  class. Because  after  normalization,  this distance  D  one  will  be  smaller  than  D  two. This  is  some  of  the  normalization,  again? You  may  recall  in  our  previous  ture, we  do  some  kind  of  the  normalization within  the  image. We  also  expect  the  mean  and divide  by  the  standard  deviation. But  this  mean  and  stanvation  is a  pax  within  one  image. Now  here,  this  normalization  is cross  all  different  image or  different  training  data. The  standard  deviation  is not  the  peak  within  the  image, is  a  standard  divation over  or  training  sample  of  one  class. Similarly,  the,  the  center  of  the  sample, is  also  the  average  of  the  training  image, not  the  average  of the  peak  survenu  of  one  image. These  two  are  different. But  the  idea  is  the  same  here  again, we  use  this  normalization to  normalize  this  distance. This  distance  is called  Maharal  Base  distance. Well,  previously,  this  blue  one is  our  common  used  euked  distance. The  read  one  is  called  Maharal  Bas  distance. For  the  multiple  dimension, however,  how  to  do this  kind  of  the  normalization. We  know  for  multiple  dimensions, if  the  data  is  not  just  a  scan  of  value. If  this  X  is  not  a  one  variable, it  is  a  vector  of  the  variable, then  how  to  do  such kind  of  the  normalization. For  one  dimensional  case, it  is  pretty  simple. Of  course,  you  can  think  about, we  can  extend  that  from one  dimension  to  high  dimension  by, we  can  compute  the  variance  or  stan  divation of  every  component  of  the  vector, and  then  every  component  of this  different  square  normalized by  the  stand  diation of  the  corresponding  component. Then  sum  them  together because  this  e  basically, it  is  the  difference of  each  element  of  the  vector, then  square  then  sum  over all  component  in  the  vector. If  you  understand  this  matrix  multiplication. A  the  dot  product  of  the  two  vector. Then  if  it  is  a  vector, then  this  nomination,  we  can  also  do the  nomination  to  each  component. After  divided  by  the  standard  dvation, all  variants  of  each  component, then  sum  them  together. But  in  fact,  for  the  high  dimension  of  data, beside  if  each  20  sample has  multiple  component,  a  vector. Each  component  cross  different  sample, we  have  the  varions, or  we  have  the  standard  divation. Besides  that,  the  cross different  component  of  the  vector, they  may  have  some  correlation. Okay.  I  in  the  multiple  variant  case, or  multiple  dimension  of  the  data, or  if  this  data  is  a  vector beside  the  variance  of  each  component, we  have  the  covariance. The  covariance  will  show  the  correnation between  different  components  of  the  vector. Mathematically,  for  a  vector, if  the  sample  is a  v  that  contain  multiple  components, this  is  a  deflation, is  called  covariance  matrix. Now,  here,  this  vector  is a  common  vector  multi by  row  vector  becomes  to  a  matrix. If  x  is  a  dimensional  vector, then  this  is  n  by  matrix. Now,  you  should  be  able  to  image what  is  the  element  in  this  matrix. The  diagonal  line  is the  component  multiplied  by  ECF. It  is  a  variance  of  different  component, where  all  diagonal  line  of  this  matrix  is a  multiplication  of the  two  different  component  of  the  vector. It  is  a  show the  correlation  between  different  components. For  high  dimensional  case, besides  the  variation  of  the  data, we  have  the  information  of the  correlation  between different  components  of  the  data. We  have  the  matrix,  covariance  matrix. Of  course,  mathematic,  we can  very  easily  say  this  cos  matrix, this  definition  can  also compute  it  by  this  one  minus  this  one. This  is  a  simple  mathematics, you  can  very  easily  to  prove  it. Okay.  Then  for  the  matrix,  for  a  vector, what  we  have  is  a  matrix  is  not just  a  single  variance  or  stand  division, then  how  to  do  the  normalization  of the  equiv,  how  to  normalize  it. In  matrix  case,  then  we use  the  inverse  of  this  cons  matrix. We  insert  the  inverse  of the  corres  matrix  between this  two  mutipication,  here  s  here. This  is  also  called  distance. Of  course,  it  is  a  square  distance. The  real  distance  should  be  square  root, but  it  does  not  make any  role  because  anyway  we  compare different  distance  or  compare different  square  of the  distance,  it  is  the  same. Basically,  this  is some  kind  of  the  normalization. In  terms  of  the  matrix, we  multiply  the  inverse  of  the  matrix. We  cannot  do  a  simple  division  divide by  the  variance  or  stand  division  here, we  have  the  matrix,  we use  the  inverse  of  the  matrix. Now,  such  distance  is  different  from the  clean  meaning  by this  so  called  covariance  matrix. Now  then  we  need  to understand  what  is  the  meaning of  this  conce  matrix. What  information  we  can  get  from the  conce  matrix  computed by  the  training  data. To  understand  this  cons  matrix, we  will  show  here. We  first  use  the  two  dimensional  data  to visualize  the  difference  of the  two  cons  matrix. Be  corns  matrics,  it must  be  multiple  dimension. Here,  show  two  dimensions. Hz  is  a  one  component vertically  is  a  large  component. 020  sample  is  one  point in  this  two  dimensional  space. Now,  suppose  we  have  the  two  class. The  red  dot  is  a  t  sample of  one  class,  two  dimensional  data. The  blue  point  is a  training  sample  of  a  larger  class. Now,  the  all  t  sample  of  one  class, will  show  here  the  position  of  the  dot indicate  the  value  of this  tiny  sample,  vector. One  point  is  determined by  one  vector  two  dimensional  vector. So  we  have  such  distribution of  the  different  training  sample  of the  red  class  and  the  distribution  of the  different  tiny  sample  of  the  blue  class. Now,  this  two  tiny  sample, we  have  some  some  cloud of  the  distribution  of  this  tiny  sample. We  will  see  from  here, then  we  will  see  if  we  want  to  compute the  the  variance  of  the  first  component, for  example,  hotly,  what  is  the  variance? Then  vertically,  what  is  the  variance, we  can  have  the  two  varians. That  means  the  value  of the  point  project  to  the  hot  axis, then  we  can  compute  what  is  the  variation. We  can  also  project the  two  dimensional  data  into  vertical  axis. Then  we  can  compute  what  is the  standard  diviation  of  variance. We  have  two  varions  for the  two  component  of the  two  dimensional  data. Now,  in  such  a  case, this  two  class  could  have  two  varians. But  the  distribution  the  data  distribution of  these  two  class  are  totally  different. The  shape  and  the  size  of  this  data v  data  distribution  is determined  by  the  covalence  matrix. Now,  this  example  will show  for  the  first  one, we  have  such  kind  of  the  conce  matrix, This  1.2  is  the  variance  of the  data  alone  the  hoton  axis. The  0.8  is  a  variance  of the  second  component  or  the  vertical  axis. We  have  two  variants because  we  have  two  components. Each  sample,  each  point  has  two  components. Each  of  these  two  component, we  can  compute  the  variance. Then  we  get  this  two  varian. And  the  diagol  element, this  0.3  is  the  x  one  multiply x  two  is  a  two  component cross  multiplication. To  compute  this  z  point  and  this  z  0.3. These  are  covariants. Cross  the  two  different  component of  the  two  dimensional  vector. Well,  this  is  for  the  red  cross, for  the  blue  cross, we  have  such  of  the  covariance  matrix. Now,  from  the  two  cent  metric, we  will  see  that, the  21.2  and  0.8  are  same  for red  class  and  blue  class. Although  the  two  component  has same  variants  for  this  two  class, but  the  distribution  are  totally  different, the  shape  are  totally  different. These  are  determined  by  this  variants, the  off  diagonal  line. Now,  what  is  the  meaning  of this  covariance  as  I  mentioned  that the  meaning  of  the  co  variance  is  some  of correnation  between the  two  components  of  the  vector. This  0.3  means  they have  some  positive  correlation. That  means  if  given sale  if  the  whole  value  is, then  the  vertical  value  is  also. It  shows  such  kind of  the  positive  correnation. Now  here,  this  corn mat  covariance  is  a  negative. It  shows  some  of  the  negative  correlation. From  this  shape  of  the  data  distribution, we  see  that  if  we  know, a  sample  has  g  value, host  node  value, the  vertical  value  is  most  likely  smaller. They  have  some  of  the  negative  correlation. This  different  correlation,  we  are determining  the  shape  of the  distribution  of  the  data. Obviously,  to characterize  the  different  shape, we  cannot  just  use  the  two  variants. We  must  use  the  coordination  between the  different  component  of  the  vector. This  the  whole  co  matrix, we  are  determining  the  shape of  this  distribution. It  is  very  important  this  conce  matrix. The  whole  matrix  is  very  important. Not  just  the  variation  or variance  of  each  component  of  the  vector. Now,  we  define  the  so  called  Manv  distance. In  the  high  dimensional  case, it's  show  in  this  formula. Now,  you  also  come  easily to  memorize  what  is  the  Mov  distance. It's  just  normalize  the  equiv  distance. If  it  is  high  dimension of  course  to  normalize  that, we  use  the  inverse  of the  cons  matrix  to normalize  this  equity  distance. We  have  the  so  called  Mov  distance. Now,  as  I  mentioned  that  here, this  mo  hundred  distance, we  are  determining  the  shape of  the  cons  metric, we  are  main  determining the  shape  of  this  data  distribution. From  this  mound  distance, we  can  also  very  easily  to  see  that. If  this  exquation  equals to  constant,  what  is  it? What  is  this  equation if  this  distance  equals  to  five. This  is  a  equation. Now  in  this  high  dimension  space, this  equation  will  specify. This  is  an  equation  of  the  ellipse. For  the  mathematics, this  is  also  a  common  sense. A  equation  equation  of such  express  equals  to a  constant  with  specify  ellipse. That  means  value  along this  along  this  ellipse  has same  hundred  distance  to  its  center because  this  ellipse  is specified  by  this  expression equals  to  a  constant. Then  this  constant  this  is a  squared  distance  for  all  if  this  equation. We  can  say  that  this  mired  bis  shows that  the  equal  distance  hundred  b  distance  to the  center  it  form  eps. Now,  Abs  has  much  more  freedom  than  a  circle. Now,  if  we  say  what  is  for  C  distance, C  distance  is  show  here. If  the  C  distance  equals to  a  constant  sum  value, this  equation  will  specify  a  circle. That  means  all  x  value has  distance  to  the  center, same  distance  to  the  center will  form  a  circle. Now,  circle  is  only  depends on  the  radius  one  single  venue, we  are  specified  a  circle. But  ellipse,  we  are  specified  by  a  matrix. Because  ellipse  has  more  freedom, contains  much  more  information. The  ellipse  can  be  very  narrow, can  be  very  flat. If  it  is  flat  ellipse, it  be  a  circle. If  it  is  a  very  narrow  ellipse, it  can  form  a  street  mine. Right?  Also,  this  has nun  axis  and  small  axis, the  nun  axis  may  have  different  direction or  orientation  in  the  high  dimensional  space. All  this  information  is carried  by  this  cons  matrix. Okay. Now,  this  is  the  meaning  of this  core  matrix  and  the  Mholoy  distance, geometrically  how  to  see  what  is the  Moly  distance  specified by  this  core  matrix  of  the  data. Now,  the  same  mah  distance  of  the  X, X  has  says  to  the  center,  we  form  ellipse. It  means  that  if  this  data is  the  distribution  along  this  ellipse, they  have  density. The  density  is. Now,  without  this  black  ellipse, we  just  see  this  dot, will  form  a  cloud. This  cloud  has  some  kind  of  shape. This  shape  is  this  edit  shape. Why  we  say  it  is  edit  shape? Because  along  this  ellipse, the  data  has  density. The  same  density  is  not  a  circle. If  we  prod  a  circle  obs, the  density  of  the  data here  is  lower  than  density  here. If  along  a  circle. So  we  understand  the  same  by deten  corresponding  to this  density  of  the  data. Now,  this  is  the  cloud  plot of  all  training  data. We  say  the  density  of  this  point. If  we  use  the  probability  to measure  the  PDF  of  this  class, then  it  will  be  a  gal  class. The  GG  PDF  will  be  somehow specified  by  e  minus  of  this  expression. The  distance  are  directly related  to  the  gain  PDF. Because  we  know  the  gauzin  PDF, the  contour  of  the  gauzen  PDF  is  the  ellipse. That  means  along  ellipse, the  PDF  has  same  value. Same  mahubi  distance  to  the  center. Okay.  Now  here,  we  try  to simplify  the  expression  to  compute this  cons  matrix  because it  is  extremely  important. For  high  dimensional  data, a  docen  PDF  only specified  by  a  mean  vector and  the  cons  matrix. In  many,  we  need  to  compute the  cons  matrix  or  further derive  something  from  this  coves  matrix. Before  we  do  that,  we  try  to simplify  the  expression  to compute  the  cons  matrix. Now  given  a  set  of  the  training  data. First,  every  training  data, we  minus,  it's  mean. Of  course,  this  is  only  for  one  class  if  we talk  about  the  class  conditional  cons  matrix. Anyway,  if  sample  minus  its  mean  we have  the  so  called  centralized  training  data. X  curve. Now,  if  we  put all  this  training  data into  as  a  co  vector  put  together, then  we  will  form  a  matrix. Now,  this  matrix  is  a  data  matrix. We  can  say  all  data,  training  data, whatever  number  of  the  number  of the  training  data,  whatever  high  dimension. We  can  put  all  of  them  into  a  matrix. T  into  a  matrix. Now,  after  doing  so, we  can  simply  find  the  expression  of the  computing  of  this  cons  matrix. We  can  very  easily  see  that. It  is  just  a  matrix  multiplication. Given  the  training  data after  we  subtract  its  mean, then  form  a  matrix. Then  we  just  use  this  data  matrix multiplied  by  its  transpose. Then  we  can  express  the  corns  matrix. NAT,  we  can  use  this  expression. The  cons  matrix  is just  the  data  matrix multiplied  by  its  transpose. Use  this  expression to  further  derive  something. Okay.  Now,  in  fact, we  can  use  this  to  express  a  con  matrix. I  is  pretty  clear, very  straightforward,  right? Now,  the  purpose  here  is  just to  simplify  the  expression, and  then  after  that, we  can  further  work  on  that. Okay.  Now,  before  we  go  to  that, we  just  mention  one  specific  problem. In  many  applications. We  may  have  a  huge  number  of  the  class  where each  class  may  have only  a  few  training  samples. But  in  the  mab  distance to  compute  the  distance  between  the  input, we  want  to  recognize  what is  it  between  the  distance  of this  input  with  with the  class  center  use  the  maanoy  distance, we  need  you  use the  class  conditional  cosmetc. But  each  class  we  only  have  a  few  sample. A  few  sample  if  we  just  use a  few  sample  to  compute  the  cosmetics, then  this  cosmetics  is  not  reliable. It  Based  on  a  few  sample  to  computer  metric, this  cosmetri  cannot  really reflect  it  is  the  cosmetric  of the  whole  class  population because  we  have  a  very  small  number of  t  samples. How  to  solve  this  problem, we  just  use  the  average  of the  class  conditional  corsmt into  one  common  cosmetri. This  average  is  called  por  cornmtri, or  within  class  gametric. Originally  for  each  class, we  have  the  nsmtrix. Then  we  average  over all  class  to  have  one  single  matrix. The  single  matrix,  we  call  the  within class  scatter  matrix  or pd  class  conditional  consmtric. Now,  this  expression  is the  verage  over  different  class. Suppose  we  have  C  class. This  is  an  index  of  the  different  class. But  in  general  case, different  class  may  have different  number  of  the  Chinese  sample. For  example,  some  class  may  have  520  samples, some  class  may  have  15  or  13  20  sample. Here,  this  average  is  a  weighted  average. We  weight  the  class  conditional  coves  matches by  the  number  of the  training  data  of  this  class. Now,  this  is  average  over  different  class. Because  we  can  very  easily  see  that. Suppose  every  class  has the  same  number  of  20  sample. This  Q  is  a  total  number  of  the  20  sample. If  every  class  has the  same  number  of  the  20  sample, then  this  is  the  same  value  for  all  class. Then  this  Q  over  Q. What  is  it?  J  over  Q. Of  course,  it's  over  C,  right? It  is  clear,  it  is  some  oversea some  oversea  matrix  then  divided by  C.  This  is  typically  average,  right? Of  course,  this  is  just  for  the  case, if  every  class  has the  same  number  of  the  twine  sample. Now,  in  general  case, if  different  class  has different  number  of  tine  sample, then  it  is  a  QG  over  Q. QG  is  a  number  of  the  t  sample of  the  class  G.  Q  is  the  number of  total  number  of  the  tine  sample. Basically,  this  is  some  of  average of  the  class  conditional  cons  matric. Now,  I  just  give  you  an  example  in the  practice  why  in  many  application, we  have  such  kind  of  situation. We  have  a  huge  number  of  the  class, but  each  class  has  only  a  few  chinese  sample. Suppose  we  want  to  build  up a  phase  identification  system. Now,  we  want  to  identify some  one  space  from 1  million  or  10  million  different  persons. This  phase  identification  at the  end  is  a  classification of  the  input  into one  of  the  1  million  persons. Each  person  is  one  class  because  if face  recognition  is  based  on the  facial  image  to  recognize  this  person. Each  person  is  a  class. Now,  each  person's  phase may  have  a  large  variation. You  can  take  the  phase  image from  different  angle, different  size,  and  a  different  expion. Of  course,  the  training  sample  of  one  class, a  same  person  could  have  large  variation. Now,  to  build  up  a  face  recognition  system of  1  million,  10  million  people. It  is  very  difficult  to  connect the  face  image  of every  person  thousands  or hundreds  of  the  image, different  image  with  different  variation. If  doing  so,  that  means  you  require every  person  among  1  million  people, every  person  to  take the  image  with  s,  smile,  angry, neutral,  or  different  expression, and  a  different  angle, different  lighting,  it's  impossible. Most  likely  is  for  each  person, we  can  only  take  a  few  image. Now,  if  each  person, you  just  take  a  few  image, then  you  compute  the  class conditional  coves  matrix. Of  course,  this  matrix  cannot  really reflect  the  all  variation of  the  data  of  this  person. For  one  person,  you  can  only  have the  collect  t  image  of  a  few  variation. You  cannot  use  them  to  represent all  possible  variation  of this  person's  face  image. For  every  class,  this  class  conditional as  matrix  is  unreliable. We  cannot  trust. This  is  really  contains the  variation  of  this  person's  phase  image. But  if  we  every  person  we  it  a  few  image, then  we  have  millions  of  the  persons. Then  we  do  the  age  over  all  persons. Then  this  Sigma  W  can  capture almost  all  possible  variation of  a  human  phase  image. Some  person  take  the  image may  happen  to  be  love. A  other  person  happen  to  be  angry. For  different  person,  they take  phase  from  the  different  angle. Such  of  the  average  in  this  sigma  may contain  all  possible  variation of  a  phase  image. Of  course,  this  sigma  is  very, very  reliable  compared  to Sigma  G  for  each  individual  person. This  is  why  sometimes  we cannot  use  the  cornsomatrics  for  each  class. We  use  this  i  reached  Cornsmetric  as the  common  cornsmatrics for  all  different  class. Now  we  have  this  Sigma  W.  Now, besides  this  cores  matrics, we  can  also  compute  some  other  cons matrics  neta,  we  may  use  it. Anyway,  cores  metric,  it  is  very  informative. It  carries  a  lot  of the  information  because  it  will  show the  whole  shape  of the  distribution  of  the  training  data. Previously,  we  know  that to  normalize  the  equidistance, we  need  to  compute  the  cons  matri of  every  class,  each  class. Then  use  it  to  normalize the  equ  distance  of  this  class. Here  we  have  the  definition  of the  class  conditional  corns  matrics. To  simplify  it,  this  is just  two  matrix  multiplication. Then  we  introduce  some  application, we  need  average the  class  conditional  corns  matrics into  one  common  cons  matrix. It  is  called  p cosmetric  or  within  class  gatmatri. Some  literature  use  A  if we  call  the  cosmetric  as  the  scat  matrics. Now,  different  literature, we  have  different  name. Someone  calls  the  skatmtri,  use  a. But  it's  within  class because  although  we utilize  all  training  data, but  basically  it  is  just  a  reach  of the  cosmetric  within  each  class. Here  it  is  called  within  class  satmatric. Now,  for  each,  we  can measure  the  variation  of  the  training  data. We  can  also  measure the  variation  of  the  different  class. We  take  the  class  center  of the  different  class  as  a  sample, then  to  compute  a  cores  matrix. This  is  the  same  diflion  of  the  cores  matrix. We  just  replace  x  x  small  XG  into  G.  G  is the  mean  of  the  class g.  We  take  center of  the  different  class  meaning  point, then  we  can  also  compute  the  cons  matrix. This  cons  matrix  B  is called  between  class  go  matrix. Because  you  measure the  variation  of  different  class. Each  class  we  only  use  the  center. Center  is  also  a  vector, is  the  same  as  a  tiny  sample. Because  center  is  age  of the  vector  is  also  a  vector. We  can  also  use  this  center as  a  different  vector of  different  class  to  complete  cons  matrix. The  deflation  as  is  same. Only  difference  is  here. Because  if  this  UG  is  not  a  single  20  sample, it  is  a  center  of  a  class, then  different  class  will  have different  number  of  the  20  sample. Here  again,  we  use the  weighted  average  in computing  the  coins  matrix, weight  by  the  number  of  the  t  sample  of the  class  G.  Same  as  before, we  can  very  easily  to  verify  that. This  is  average  over different  different  class. Then  use  each  class will  use  the  center  of  this  class. This  is  average  over  all  different  class because  if  each  class has  the  same  number  of  the  training  data, then  Q  over  Q  is  just  one  over. It  is  some  kind  of  the  average  to define  this  so  called  between  class  matrics. It  is  also  some  of  the  cos  matric. Now,  for  the  super  earning, sometimes  we  don't  know the  class  membership  of  the  training  data. Or  we  don't  use  the  class  able, we  use  all  training  data to  compute  one  orthometric. This  cosmetric  is  called  the  total  sktmtric. The  definition  of  the  osmatric  are  same. Is  the  same  on  here  with  some  over all  samples  for  whatever  class, with  some  together  or average  all  of  them  together. This  total  scat  metric, is  that  the  meaning  of the  total  means  all  class, the  sample  of  all  class, how  they  skate  scatter  themselves. Okay.  Now,  if  we  use this  tibulation  of  the  STB  and  SW, then  we  can  very  easily  to show  that  ST  equals  to  S  plus  SB. Well,  SW  is  the  weight  average of  the  class  conditional  corns  matrix, SB  is  the  cons  matrix  of the  class  centers  of  different  class. From  the  previous  slight  stipulation, then  we  have  St  equals  to S  plus  S.  Of  course, this  is  a  weighted  average. We  always  use  this  weighted average  by  the  number  of  the  t  sample. If  we're  doing  so,  in  this  deflation, we  use  this  waked  average  here, also  use  the  wicked  average, then  for  all  training  data, a  set  of  the  training  data, we  have  that  kind  of  nations. Now,  if  you  don't  believe, you  can  very  easily  prove  it  mathematically. It  is  not  difficult. A  few  steps  you  can  get  mathematical  proof. This  also  show  a  very  useful  sens. The  total  variation  of  the  data is  equals  to  the  variation  of  the  data within  the  class  plus the  variation  of  the  center of  the  different  class. The  variation  of  the  twining  sample within  the  class  plus  the  variation  of the  center  of  the  different  class  together is  some  of  the  variation of  the  whole  twining  data. If  you  accept  it,  then  this  formula  is  very easy  to  we  will  say this  formula  is  very  straightforward. Now,  we  have  show  that  how  to do  this  comparison  and  classification, how  to  evaluate  the  distance  from the  distance  to  the  Movi  distance. The  ma  distance,  will  show that  it  will  measure the  distance  along  epe has  the  same  distance  to  the  center. It  makes  this  of the  same  distance  to  the  center  freedom. This  ellipse  can  have  different, different  orientation. And  so  on.  This  is  very  intuitive  to introduce  how  to  make our  classification  for  unknown  input. Use  the  mo  distance. It  appears  to  be  a  Intuitive. It's  not  difficult  to  understand. But  all  this  intuitive  way, after  we  have  this  one, we  should  have  some of  the  sod  theoretical  support. Now,  next  topic,  we  will  stardy the  same  the  classification, but  use  more  theoretical  way. Use  more  sic  to  derive the  optimum  or  optimum  classification. At  the  end  you  will  find  that, it  is  the  same  as  the  topic  four, this  very  intuitive  derivation. We  get  the  distance  classify. Now  to  they  study, what  is  the  best  way to  make  the  classification or  the  best  way  to make  our  prediction  or  decision, then  we  need  some  kind of  the  probability  theory. Because  the  prediction  is to  predict  some  unknowns. We  always  have  some  uncertainty. Even  we  have  certain, we  still  make  prediction. We  still  need  to  make  our  decision. How  to  find the  best  decision  or  best  prediction, we  can  only  measure  this  best  or optimum  in  terms  of  the  probability, because  it  will  produce  higher  probability, or  because  it  will  minimize  the  O  rate, minimize  the  possible  error. All  this  one,  we  need  to study  from  the  probability  theory. We  know  that  many  students find  the  probability  is  somehow  hard to  understand  because  some  of  the  abstract, is  something  it  is not  so  easy  to  imagine  what  is  it. Although  we  will  thetic  study  this  issue, how  to  make  a  best  prediction  or classification  or  decision from  the  probability  theory, but  I  still  try  to  make  it  intuitive. Start  from  the  common  sense. Everybody  knows  that  then  to derive  the  final  optimum  decision. Now  this  is  some  subtopics we  need  to  go  through in  this  so  called  MAP  decision and  classifiers. As  I  mentioned  that,  we  need to  start  from  the  probability  theory. Now,  in  fact,  although  many  people  find the  probability  is  somehow difficult  to  image. But  in  my  opinion, probability  theory  is  not  so  difficult. It  is  some  also  from  the  common  sense. Now  here,  we  start  from a  simple  example  to see  what  is  the  probability, how  to  use  the  probability  to  help  us to  figure  out  what  decision  we  should  make. What  is  the  best  decision? Now,  suppose  you  stay in  a  classroom  of  the  school  of the  trouble  E.  You  haven't  say  anybody  else, but  then  some  students  knock  the  door. We'll  go  into  the  classroom. Then  you  need  predict  or  make  a  decision. This  one  is  a  male  or  female. Then  what  is  your  decision? Of  course,  it  is  uncertain, whatever  decision  you  predict  it  is a  male  person  or you  predict  it's  a  female  person, whatever  prediction,  it  could be  correct,  I  could  be  wrong. But  we  need  to  find  the  best  prediction. Now,  what  is  your  best  prediction. In  such  a  situation, you  stay  in  a  classroom  of  the  school  of the  tb  Someone  knocks the  door,  open  the  door  go  in. But  before  that,  you  need  to  predict it's  a  male  student  or  female  student. Now,  if  you  have the  common  sense,  the  best  decision, all  the  best  decision  is  you predict  it  is  a  male,  not  a  female. Because  by  our  statistics, we  know  that  in  school  of  the  E, there  are  70%  of  the  student  are male  and  30%  of  student  are  female. Then  based  on  the  two  starts. From  the  registration  of  the  student, the  better  prediction  is  you predict  this  person  is  a  male. If  you  have  commons,  why? Although  your  decision  may be  wrong,  may  be  correct. So  But  it  will  be  better because  in  the  school of  the  you  will  have  more  male  than  female. But  in  another  situation, if  you  are  sitting  in  a  classroom  of the  school  of  accounting, suppose  in  the  school  of  accounting, the  student  has  only  30%, but  70%  are  female. Then  your  decision  will  be  opposite. The  better  prediction  is  the  student  will come  into  the  classroom  will  be  the  female. Now,  how  do  you  work  out your  decision  and  how  to  mathematically  to justify  your  decision  is better  than  your  opposite  decision. How  do  you  justify? In  the  scientific  work, whatever  method,  you  must  have  some  reason. Otherwise,  your  approach  cannot  published. If  you  want  published, if  you  want  your  idea accept  by  other  audience, you  must  justify  it. You  must  give  the  reason. We  are  beneath  your  reason. How  to  justify. In  the  first  case, you  predict  is  a  male, the  six  case  you  predict  is a  female  is  a  better  prediction, how  to  justify  it  mathematically or  theoretically,  or  scientifically. Then  we  need  some  kind of  the  probability  theory. Now,  that  based  on the  probability  mathematically, the  prediction  zoo  or decision  zoo  is  pretty  simple. This  decision  is just  a  maximum  probability  decision. This  is  a  common  sense. If  you  want  to  predict  it come  from  which  class,  of  course, if  you  know  the  probability of  the  different  class,  of  course, you  will  predict  the  class that  has  highest  probability. Based  on  the  statistic  of the  school  of  the  b  and accounting  of  this  population  of  the  student. We  know  that  the  probability  of  the  male  or mega  one  is  0.7  for  male  and  0.3  for  female, for  the  school  of  the  accounting, the  probability  of  the  student is  female  is  0.7  male  is  0.3. Based  on  this  statistic, we  can  figure  out  this  probability. Now  again  here  is  also  although  this  0.7, come  from  70%,  70%  is based  on  the  student  statistic. This  is  the  statistics, is  a  me  is  a  result  measured  by  real  result. This  is  some  of the  statistics  based  on  the  data. But  this  0.7  is  a  probability. Although  it  come  from  here, but  the  meaning  are  different. Now,  if  we  see  the  probability of  the  mayor  is  0.7, this  0.7  means  someone will  come  from  the  student  pool  of  the  sch, the  possible  it  is  the  male  is  0.7. This  is  some  of  the  theoretical  value, but  we  use  this  statistic, this  real  value  to  estimate  this  probability. Anyway,  based  on  this to  probability,  we  can  see  that, the  decision  zoo  or  or  the  zoo  for the  prediction  is  pretty straightforward,  it's  common  sense. We  will  predict  this  unknown  one into  a  class  that  has  highest  probability. Although  the  decision  is not  definitely  correct, but  there's  no  other  beta  decision. The  best  one  is  just  predict the  unknown  one  from the  class  that  has  highest  probability. I  believe  this  is  a  common  sense. Even  a  child  should  understand  that,  right? Now,  if  you  predict  this  person  is  mayor, where  the  probability  of  the  mayor  is  0.7, then  what  is  the  probability your  decision  or  your  prediction  is  wrong? Then  the  probability your  prediction  is  wrong, it's  just  zero  point. It  is  one  -0.7. Because  someone  we  get  into  the  classroom. It  must  be  either  male  or  female, cannot  be  anything  else. Because  of  that,  the  probability  of  the  male plus  the  probability  of female  must  be  equals  to  one. Because  of  that,  if  you predict  this  person the  class  probability  is  0.7, then  the  probability  of  the  one  decision, is  very  straightforward,  is  one  -0.7  is  0.3. If  you  make  a  prediction to  choose  the  highest  probability, then  the  probability  of your  one  decision  is  minimum  value. Can  you  imagine  you  can  figure  out better  prediction  because  such  kind of  prediction  already  results  in the  minimum  probability  of  the  error  rate. Now,  the  probability  of  the  decision, this  is  a  sic  term  which call  the  probability  of  the  decision. In  the  practice,  it  is  same  as  the  O  rate. Why  same  as  the  O  rate. Although  the  two  concepts  are  different, but  the  concept  of  the  ro  rate means  if  you  do  such  prediction, 1,000  times, then  the  rate  will  most  likely  300  times  one. Then  the  correct  prediction  will  be  700. This  is  if  you  do  a  large  number of  such  kind  of  prediction, you  will  compute  what  is  the  O  rate? This  O  rate  must  be  converged to  the  probability  of  the  wrong  decision. This  error  rate,  all  the  probity of  the  wrong  decision  will  be  minimized. Because  of  that,  this  is  somehow  optimum. Now,  it  appears  to  be the  best  prediction of  the  optimum  prediction. It  is  very  straightforward  common  sense. Then  based  on  that,  we  will make  the  case  a  bit  complicated. Now,  if  you  know  the  student  will  come  into the  classroom  of the  accounting  school  of  the  accounting. But  this  person  the  height  is  1.75. If  you  know  this  situation,  this  knowledge, this  information,  then  what is  your  best  decision? What  is  the  best  prediction? In  such  a  case.  Then  male  or  female, which  one  is  better, which  prediction  is  better. Now,  in  principle,  the  idea  in  such  a  case, for  whatever  case, the  basic  idea  are  exactly  the  same. There's  no  difference. The  based  decision  is  based on  the  probability  of  the  two  class, which  one  is  higher. Then  you  predict  which  one. The  principle  are  exactly,  no  difference. You  may  say  so  simple. Whatever  case,  we  only  use  the  same  method. Yes,  it  is  a  tool. In  fact,  meaning  very  complex  technique is  derived  from  a  very  simple  ideas. The  simple  principle  ideas is  very  common  sense. There's  no  magic  in  our  word. We  just  based  on  the  common  sense, everyone  can  understand. Now,  although  we  use  the  same  principle, to  make  a  prediction, we  just  take  the  class that  has  highest  probability,  that's  all. There's  no  other  choice. But  the  problem  here  is  how to  compute  the  probability  of  this  two  class. If  you  already  know  the  person  of this  unknown  male  or female  unknown  gender  is  1.75. Then  the  probability  of  the  male  or female  of  this  person  is  same  as  before. Or  obviously,  it's  not  the  same. Same  as  the  probab  of the  male  and  female  in  the  school of  the  computing  and  school  of the  b  are  different.  They  are  different. We  understand  they  are  different. Simly,  a  person's  gender  is  a  male  or  female. After  you  know  the  height of  this  person  is  1.75. We  are  different  from  before  you  know  it. What  is  the  probability? Probability  is  a  value  to  measure the  uncertainty  to  measure some  uncertainty  of  unknown, if  you  already  know  something, then  this  one  will exclude  to  measure  the  probability. Here,  how  to  compute  it, then  we  need  to  use some  more  mathematics  to  compute. What  is  the  probability  of  a  person, a  student  height  is  1.75, but  from  the  school  of  the  computing  student, what  is  the  probability  of  this  person  is a  male  and  the  probability,  it  is  female. How  to  come  how to  get  this  probability  value. By  doing  so  for  convenience, we  just  use  mama  masematic  de  notion different  from  the  before. Now,  we  made  the  probability of  the  male  of  the  ma  one. We  say  condition  of  the  height, the  suppose  X  is  mad  the  height. The  height  is  1.75  x  x  1.75. We  call  some  of  the  a  poster  probity. Now,  a  postal  probability  is  just  a  name. Don't  be  scared  by  this  many  different  name. It's  just  a  name. Basically,  it  is  some  kind of  the  conditional  probability. Only  the  condition  is  some  kind of  we  receive  the  input. The  height  is  1.75. Then  we  need  computer  probability. We  call  it  a  postal  probability. After  we  receive  the  information, the  height  is  1.75. Without  this  condition without  this  information, we  call  it  a  prior  probability. P  or  mega,  it means  it's  a  probability  of  a  class ora  before  we  know the  height  of  this  person  is  1.75. This  is  just  to  denote  the  physical  process. Basically,  this  a  postal  probability is  just  a  conditional  probability. The  probability  of  the  ga  one  and the  condition  x  x  to  1.75,  right? Then  we  use  this  x  Omega  and  the  condition  x. This  is  just  to make  us  convenient  to  compute  it, make  us  easy  to  compute  it. Basically,  it  is  a  conditional  probability. Basically,  it  is  just  the  probability of  the  Omega  one, the  class  male  probability  of  the  male. No  difference.  Because  in  fact, all  probability  is  a  conditional  probability. Now,  for  example,  we see  the  probability  of  the  mayor  in our  school  of  the  trouble  E  is  0.7. This  is  also  a  conditional  probability. It's  the  condition  the  student  is from  trouble  E.  Now, without  this  condition,  then  what is  the  probability  of  a  person  is  a  male? Probability  a  person  is  a  fame. I  must  be  0.50  0.5. Now  we  have  07.  It  is also  a  conditional  probability. After  we  know  the  student is  come  from  the  school  of  that. But  we  don't  use the  conditional  probability  the  notion. We  just  use  the  p  one. This  is  because  for  our  study, we  suppose  this  probability is  without  any  input. We  we  want  to  study  the  probability  after this  input  received  and before  this  X  is  received. So  for  such  kind  of  the  scope  of  the  study, we  use  the  P  Omega to  denote  student  probability of  students  gender  from certain  school  from  school  of the  from  school  of  the  computing. We  don't  use  the  conditional  sig. In  fact,  it  is  also  condition conditional  probability. There's  no  difference  between conditional  probability  and  a  probability. It's  just  a  probability. It  depends  on  what  your  study  scope, which  one  will  make  you  easier  to fake  out  the  value  of  this  probability. As  I  mentioned  that,  all  this  one, don't  be  scared  by  this  technology or  this  expression. A  postal  probability  is just  a  conditional  probability. Conditional  V  is  the  same  as a  normal  probability.  There's  no  difference. Just  a  normal  probability is  also  a  condition. In  fact,  it's  also  some  of  the  condition. On  this  condition  is not  within  our  scope  of  the  study. We  don't  need  to  put it  as  a  conditional  probability. We  use  this  conti  we  use this  dnoion  is  to help  us  to  compute  its  value. It's  not  to  t  to  trouble  us. Basically,  the  just  probability. Now  after  we  understand  that, then  the  name  of  this  decision, we  also  modify  it  as the  maximum  probabiliion  rule  from this  maximum  probability  prediction into  maximum  a  postal  probability  decision. Because  we  choose  the  class, it  has  a  maximum  postal  probability. But  a  postal  probability  is  also  as  before, it  is  a  probability. Only  we  need  to  figure  out  how  to compute  the  value  of  this  probability. We  call  a  postal  probability  is  to  make  us easier  to  figure  out how  to  compute  its  value. Based  on  our  already  known  value how  to  compute  this  probability  value. Just  to  help  us  make  us  easier  to  do  that. Because  of  that,  we  call this  decisions  as  AP  decisions. Maximum  poster  probability  decisions. In  general,  we  will  predict  a  class. It  has  highest  probability  than  all  class, but  we  need  to  compute this  probability  to  utilize all  information  we  have. Now,  for  example,  if you  just  sit  in  the  classroom, you  don't  know  what  is  this  classroom. This  classroom  is  a  primary  school or  secondary  school or  school  or  the  school of  you  don't  know  that. You  just  know  this  classroom. Then  somewhere  into  the  classroom, you  need  to  predict  the  male  or  female. Then  it  is  50  50. But  if  you  already  know  it  is the  classroom  of  the  school  of  the  trouble  E, then  you  should  utilize  this  information you  have  to  compute  its  probability. The  probability  will  be  different after  you  know  this  knowledge. The  probab  become  of  the  mayor  become  to  0.7. The  probable  of  the  fame  become  to  0.3. Why  you  have  this  two  different  kind of  the  probability  for  two  class  because  you know  it  is  the  classroom  of  the  trouble  E. You  should  utilize  all  information to  compute  the  probability. Here  we  will  study how  to  get  the  probability  to  make us  to  do  the  prediction after  we  seeive  some  information. Here,  we  denote this  information  in  this  condition. This  is  just  to  help  us  to  figure  out how  to  compute  the  value  of  this  probability. Basically,  it  is  no  difference from  a  normal  probability. Although  we  call  it  as probability  or  a  conditional  probability. Now,  if  we  make  our  prediction  based  on, we  predict  it  from the  class  of  the  highest  probability, then  the  probability  of the  wrong  decision  will be  one  minus  the  probability  of  this  class. If  you  choose  this  is  the  highest, then  the  probability  of the  wrong  decision  will  be  the  lowest. Because  of  that,  this  decision, we  minimize  the  probability of  the  wrong  decision  or minimize  the  decision  error  rate. Of  course,  this  is  the  best. This  is  the  optimum. There's  no  other  way  can  be  better  than  that. The  decision  is  optimum  in the  science  that  it  minimize the  probability  of  the  decision. In  the  practice,  if  you  compute, what  is  the  probability  of  the  decision, then  in  the  practice  you  compute  the  value, it's  the  error  rate. The  number  of  the  case divided  by  the  total  number  of  the  case, you  do  that  prediction.  Is  the  error  rate. The  maximum  apo  probability, minimize  the  error  rate, minimize  the  probability of  the  decision  error. Now,  basically,  we  call  aposto  prob. We  use  this  deion  P  Omega  d  condition  X. We  call  it  aposto  is  to  help us  to  compute  its  value. How  to  compute  its  value in  the  most  practice, it  is  not  so  easy  to  compute  this  value. It's  a  male  or  female  of  the  height  is  1.75. From  the  school  of  computing. What  is  rate? If  it  is  from  a  nurse  school, almost  99%  of  the  population  is  the  female. Then  1.75,  what  is  this  probability? It  is  not  very straightforward  to  compute  this  value. But  we  can  use a  very  basic  probability  to  compute  it. This  basic  formula  in probability  theory  is  a very  simple,  very  fundamental  one. We  just  use  the  so  called  chain  zoo. The  chain  is  a  joint  probability is  a  probability  of  one  multiplied  by probability  of  the  other  and condition  of  this  one. That's  all.  This  is  a  cha. It  just  come  from  the  P  B, is  equals  to  p  times  PB  and condition  A  or  equals to  Pb  times  PA  and  condition  B. That  this  is  changeable, but  this  is  a  very  fundamental  formula. From  here,  we  can  very easily  to  figure  out  how  to  compute the  so  called  apostrop It's  just  a  probability  of  the  class  and the  condition  of  our  measurement or  the  received  input. We  can  compute  it  based  on a  prior  probability  without the  knowledge  of  the  X, chipli  by  the  probability  of  the  X  and the  different  class  condition  then divided  by  px  from  this  from  the  first  nine. We  can  very  easily  get  this  one. Because  P  Omega  and condition  X  is  a  difficult  write  to  compute. Then  we  can  use  this  formula  to compute  the  probability  value of  this  Nap  site. But  here  we  still  need  get  what  is  the  PX. The  P  X  can  also  compute  by  this  so called  this  formula  is  also  a very  famous  in  the  probab  theory. What  is  the  name  of  this  formula? In  fact,  it  come  from the  null  of  the  total  probability. In  fact,  this  multiplication  is  here, is  a  joint  probability. Joint  probability. If  you  integrate  some  over  one  variable, then  the  result  is  a  probability  of the  other  variable.  That's  all. This  is  all  the  null of  the  total  probability. Of  course,  if  the  variable  is discrete  with  some  over  all  value. If  the  variable  is  continuous, then  we  integrate  over  all  value. That's  all.  This  is the  null  of  the  total  probability. Now,  this  tool  formula, if  you  make  it very  straightforward  in  your  mend, then  all  other  formula  in the  probabilitory  is just  an  extension  of  this  tool. For  example,  given  a  joint  distribution, how  to  get  the  so  called  marginal  PDF. I  just  apply  this  one. Come  from  the  null  of  the  total  probability. Integrate  overall  other  variable, then  the  remaining  variable, not  in  the  integration, the  result  is  the  marginal  PDF of  this  random  variable. Then  the  main  marginal PDF  of  different  variable, then  how  to  compute  the  joint  variable. They  utilize  this  change. This  one  to  compute  a  so  called  a postal  just  come  from the  chains  very  straightforward. Anyway,  this  one,  it  is  not  difficult. Then  for  PDF  is  used  for the  continuous  variable  PMF is  for  discrete  variable. Discrete  variable,  we  use the  sutu  integration. No  more  other  difference. This  change  is  just  from some  kind  of  this  very  simple  formulas. I  believe  we  know  this  one in  the  secondary  school. Joint  probability  is  equals  to p  times  PV  and  condition  A.  That's  all. This  one  can  apply  to  the  PDF  and  PMF, not  just  the  probability  of  the  two  events. The  probability  of  the  two random  variable  OPD PMF  same  apply  to  them. Now,  from  here,  we  can  get  somehow  to  make our  decision  based  on a  poster  probability  to compute  the  postal  probability, in  most  case,  we need  to  use  this  formula  to  compute it  because  it  is  difficult to  directly  figure  out what  is  a  postural  probability. We  can  use  this  one to  compute  the  postal  probability. Now,  to  make  a  best  prediction, we  need  to  use  a  postal  probability, and  a  postal  pro  can  be computed  based  on  the  prior  probability, it  is  a  constant  against  the  X  value, then  multiply  by class  conditional  PDF  of  the  X. We  need  this  PDF. Because  if  we  design  a  system to  do  automatically  prediction, we  cannot  just  design  our  system, can  only  do  a  prediction from  the  X  equals  to  1.75. Your  algorithm,  your  system must  make  your  computer  can predict  for  whatever  height  of  the  student. X  can  be  many  different  value. You  system  can  be automatically  to  do  the  prediction. By  doing  so,  we  need  the  whole  value  of this  P  against  all  possible  value  of  the  X. We  need  no  two  curve. This  two  curve  is  a  PDF  or  P  A. Of  course,  for  all  PDF,  or  PMF, the  summation  over  all  possible  value of  the  random  arable  should  be  equals  to  one. For  diqute  one, then  we'll  use  the  summation  must  be  one. If  x  is  continuous, then  the  integration  must  be  equal  to  one. This  curve  if  is  a  PDF, because  plot  curve  is  easier to  plot  each  separate  point. I  always  use  the  PDF. A  continuous  curve. The  integration  of  the  red  curve  and the  integration  of  the  black  curve  must  be equals  to  one  because all  probability  is  some of  the  normalized  by  one. Now,  that  means  we should  make  our  artism  in  the  computer in  machine  can  automatically  make a  prediction  for all  possible  input  value  of  the  X. From  here,  we  can  see  that. That  means  for  all  input  value  of  the  X, we  need  to  compute  this  one. Then  to  figure  out which  class  has  highest  this  value. But  if  we  have  this  curve, we  have  this  whole  function. Then  we  can  compute it  before  we  receive  the  value  of  the. We  can  simplify  this  computation  in terms  of  we  pre  compute  it  in  the  offline, then  to  simplify this  specific  into  a  classification. This  prediction  shows  that we  can  simplify  it  into  the  classification, for  example,  if  we  already  know  this  two  PDF, one  for  female,  one  for  male. Then  even  before  we receive  what  is  the  input  of  the  x  value, based  on  that,  we  can multiply  by  the  two  prior  probability, 0.30  0.7,  and  then  based  on  that  to  see for  what  the  black  cuff  larger  than  d  one, or  in  what  value  of  the  X, the  d  one  is  higher  than  the  black  one. Before  we  receive  the  X, for  such  a  case, suppose  we  already  mchpli by  the  prior  probability, we  can  very  easily  to  find  a  choice of  Because  if  the  x  is  arge  than  this  tic, the  black  one  will  are  the  red  one. Small  than  this  choice,  the  red  one were  larger  than  black  one. The  prediction  become  too  very  fast. After  we  know  the  eggs, we  can  directly  if the  egg  nar  than  trie  is  male. If  the  egg  smaller  than  this  ice  is  female, where  this  tic  is  pre  computed  by  this  one, first  we  use  the  training  data to  estimate  this  two  curves, then  we  can  compute  this  choice. Right?  Here,  this  one  is  called class  boundary  to  separate the  whole  input  space  into  two  region. We  have  two  dision  region. This  region  is  called male  class  desion  region. This  region  is  a  female  class  desion  region. This  is  class  boundary, A  class  tris  in  one  dimensional  case. But  after  we  design  a  system, it  automatically  to  do such  of  the  prediction, how  good  is  this  system? What  is  the  performance  of  your  system? Of  course,  in  the  practice, we  can  do  a  lot  of  the  experiment and  then  to  figure out  what  is  the  error  rate. But  how  to  study, how  good  is  this  system? What  is  the  met  or measurement  to  me the  performance  of  this  system? After  the  break,  we  will  further  study  it. 10  minutes  of  the  break. So  we  resume  How to  measure  a  system designed  to  do  the  prediction  or  decision. So  the  idea  is  simple. First  of  all,  Now, because  our  best  decision  is to  do  the  prediction  of  the  class, it  has  highest  probability. Maximum  poster  probability, it  is  the  AP  decision. Because  of  that,  then  we  can  very  easily  to get  what  is  the  probability of  the  wrong  decision  or  error  rate. It  just  one  minus  the  probability of  the  class  you  predict. Of  course,  under  condition of  all  apo  probability, or  it  is  a  sum  of the  probability  of  all  other  classes. Now,  although  here, obviously  this  probability of  the  wrong  decision, all  the  O  rate  is indicator  of  the  performance  of  the  system. But  this  one  is  just  show the  O  rate  for a  particular  venue  of  the  eggs. Because  for  different  eggs, this  O  rate  will  be  different. Then  how  to  measure the  error  rate  or  the  probie  of the  wrong  decision  over  the  whole  system. Now,  the  idea  is  also  very  straightforward. Because  for  different  X  value, the  error  rate  will  be  different. Then  the  error  rate  of the  whole  system  will  be the  error  rates  of this  value  of  the  average over  all  possible  value  of  the  X. Some  of  the  verage. The  idea  is  pretty  s  to  do  measure  that. We  just  use  the  average  O  rate over  all  post  value  of  the  input. Then  this  is  a  performance  or the  rate  of  your  designed  system. Because  we  get  this  rate for  all  post  value  of  the  input. Now,  then  the  idea  is  very  simple. Then  how  to  do  the  average. Of  course,  we  know  in our  common  sense  what  means  the  average. Average  of  X  number of  the  items  if  it  is  a  discrete. We  just  sum  over  all  of  value  of  all  items, then  divided  by  number  of  the  items. Form  this  is  average  for  discrete. For  continuous  one,  the  average  just intere  the  rate  over  all  value, then  divided  by  the  nth  of  this  integer. This  common  sense,  what is  the  average,  right? But  this  is  the  average  value  of  the g.  Somehow  it  is the  same  chance  to  take  the  different  value. Now,  our  x  is  some  of  the  random  variable. The  different  value  of  the  X, the  probability  are  different. Now,  if  X  is  humans  are  student  height, the  height  could  be  1.4  could  be  1.92  meter. Now,  if  for  all  this  possible  value, we  treat  them  exactly  same  to  average the  rate  over  all  this  possible  venue, is  one  because  we  have  the  majority  of the  student  the  height is  between  1.6  to  1.75. Most  99%  is  in  this  range, only  a  few  in  other  range. But  if  we  take  all  the  different  value, into  this  i  range, it  somehow  is  incorrect. Because  the  X  is  a  random  variable, it  has  different  probability of  the  oc  currency. That  means  take different  value  with  different  probability. Then  the  proper  average  is  not  just simply  sum  that  divide  by  the  total  number. It  should  be  weighted, should  be  weighted  by the  probability  of  the  X. This  is  a  proper  way  to do  the  average  for  the  random  variable. The  average  modify  into simple  average  into  the  average weighted  by  the  probability  of  the  X. Because  this  is  average over  different  x  value. O  different  x  value, it  has  different  probability, then  we  use  this  probability to  weight  this  error  rate, then  to  do  the  summation. Now,  this  two  formula, if  it  appears  here, it  appears  to  be  complicated, but  it's  just  a  simple  extension  from here  from  this  common  sense  of  the  average. Now,  even  we  can  say this  common  sense  of  the  average  is just  a  specific  case  of this  general  formula  of  the  average. Now,  for  example,  if  this,  this  PDF, probability  over  different  value  of  the  x, if  it's  a  uniform  distribute  0-3, then  this  px  is  1/3. Within  the  range  from  z  to. We  can  see  that  this  common  sense  of the  average  is  this  probability waged  average  for  specific  case, x  is  a  uniform  distribuy. That  means  the  probability  are  same for  all  different  value  within  this  range. Right?  Similarly,  if  it's  a  discrete, if  it  discrete  random  variable. Now,  if  this  is  a  uniform distributed  over  all  this  range, then  the  probability  is  just one  over  the  total  number  of the  items  for  probability  of  each  items. If  it's  a  uniform  distribution, then  this  one  is  reduced  to  this  one. We  can  say  this  common  sense of  the  average  is just  a  specific  case  of this  probability  weighted  average. For  the  probability  density  function, PDF,  or  PMF  is  a  uniform  distributed. Anyway,  this  is  just  the  average. We  can  use  the  average  rate  to  measure the  performance  or  the  rate of  your  designed  system. Use  it  to  measure  the  performance of  your  algorithm  or  your  system. Now  Although  for  discrete  is a  summation  for  continuous  integration, but  the  integration  is  easier  to  derive  sums. Here,  we  take  the  integration as  an  example  to further  derive  what  result  we  can  get. For  continuous  random  variable, the  age  decision  arrow  is just  weed  row  of the  e  over  possible  varie  of  the  X. This  is  wed  age. We  can  use  it  to  compute  the  overall  ro  rate. Now,  of  course,  the  probability of  the  wrong  decision  is just  one  minus  the  probability  of the  class,  we  predict  it. Then  this  a  portal  probability can  be  expressed by  p  multiplied  by class  conditional  probability  divided  by  px. This  come  from  the  change. Now,  if  this  px  multiply  insight, then  the  first  one  is a  px  integration  is  of  one. The  signal  item,  the  two  px  disappear, then  we  get  this  expression,  show  here. Now,  from  this  expression, it  appears  to  be  very  simple. But  we  should  take note  that  what  is  this  omega  k? Omega  K  is  the  class, we  predict  we  predict  the  class. Here,  Omega  k, this  K  means  the  class  we  predict. Now,  obviously  for  different  input  value, the  Omega  k  may  be  different. We  cannot  just  simple  directly  to  do this  integration  because  for different  value  of  x, this  k  will  be  different. This  Omega  k  are  different. Then  to  do  that  of  the  integration, we  can  separate  this  whole  range  of the  g  into  different  decision  region. This  integration  is  the  sum  of the  integration  of different  region  for  each  region, we  we  have  s  class. Okay.  So  we  multiply  this  one  into some  of  the  integration over  one  decision  region. Then  some  overall  class, over  all  different  decision  region,  right? Now,  this  is  very  obvious  because integration  same  as  class  summation. Integration  integration  from  A  two  B  is always  equals  to  integration  from a  two  c  plus  integration  from  c2b. We  can  always  separate  the  integration into  some  of  the  different  region to  do  the  integration. This  is  a  common  sense,  so  we can  express  this  one  in  this  one. Then  here  within  this  integration, the  Omega  is  a  constant  for  all x  within  this  integration  region. Because  of  that,  of  course, I  can  put  outside  of this  integration  because  the same  for  all  value  of  this  x. We  have  this  excretion. Now,  this  is  the  error  rate of  the  overall  error  rate. Of  course  the  probability  of the  correct  rate  is  one  minus  this  PE. Then  just  the  second  term is  the  probabile  of the  correct  decision,  right. Now,  here,  we  can  use this  formula  to  compute  the  RO  rate. Then  how  to  visualize  what  is  this  O  rate? If  the  class  conditional  PDF  is  given to  the  curve  of  this  PDF  is  given, then  how  to  visualize  this  RO  rate. We  can  visualize  it  in  two  class  case. Suppose  this  C  is  two. We  have  two  class,  we  want  to predict  which  class  come  from  one  of  the  two. Then  this  submission  becomes to  just  sum  of  the  two  class. This  total  error  rate  here, will  show  this  expression. One  minus  the  sum  of  the  two  class. Because  we  only  visualize  the  two  class. Suppose  this  two  class  has two  class  conditional  PDF is  a  curve  shield  here. Because  the  class  conditional  P will  always  multiply  by  its  py. Suppose  we  multiply  by  its  p Pyle  probabilities  are  constant  against  the X.  I  just  increase the  curve  or  suppress  the  curve. Suppose  we  have  this  curve. Then  what  is  the  meaning  of  how  to visualize  this  rate  of  the  whole  system? Now,  from  this  expression, we  can  get  the  next  mine. It  is  also  very  simple. We  write  this  one  as  P  one  plus  P two  because  Pm  1:00  P.M.  Two  is  one. We  have  only  two  class. Then  the  Pm  one  will  integrate  with  the first  PO  two  integrated  with  the  second. Then  the  P  O  in  the  first  time  we  have P  O  mia  one  minus  p  mia  multiply  this  one. Then  if  we  expect  the  p  one, inside  of  the  integration because  then  we  have one  minus  this  integration. Then  one  minus  this  integration, one  minus  integration  of  part  of  the  PDF, then  is  the  integration  of the  other  part  of  of  the  curve. Because  the  integration  of the  whole  PDF  is  one. This  one  minus  integration  of  PDF  of  class  in decision  region  of  the  class  y  is  equals to  integration  in  other  decision  region. Because  one  minus  the  integration over  r  one  is equals  integration  in  the  r  two. For  example  here,  for  PDF, the  integration  together  is  one. O  minus  integration  of this  region  is  integration  of  this  region suppose  this  is  a  tris  to separate  the  whole  region into  R  one  and  R  two. Similarly  for  the  second  term. Basically,  we  have  the  total  error  rate is  the  is  the  PDF  of  the  class  one integrated  of  these  region  of  class  two  plus the  PDF  of  the  class two  integrate over  the  decis  region  of  the  class  one. Here,  this  two  integration is  this  two  shaded  area. Suppose  we  have  one  try  to separate  the  whole  x into  two  decision  region, r  one  and  r  two. Then  the  first  item  is  this  g  area. The  second  item  is  this  rate  area. The  sum  of  this  two  area  is the  rate  or  the  probability  of  the  one  dese. We  know  that  PDF  integration is  a  is  a  probability. PDF  is  a  pro  density. The  integration  is  a  probability. The  probability  is  always the  area  and  this  curve  PDF  curve. The  probability  of  the whole  the  probability  of the  wrong  decision  of the  whole  system  is the  sum  of  this  two  shaded  area. This  issue  in  this  expression,  right? Now,  here  we  understand, given  the  cross  conditional  PDF, what  means  probability  of  the  wrong  decision? What  means  the  error  rate? The  error  rate  is some  of  this  two  shaded  area. Suppose  of  course,  this  cross  conditional  PDF is  multiplied  by  prior  probability. Then  it  is  sum  of  this  two  shaded  area. Now,  from  here,  we  also  can  very  easily  see that  the  area  of  the  sum of  the  two  shaded  area  will  be  different  if our  class  boundary  set class  boundary  at  a  different  position. The  whole  area  of this  shaded  area  is the  sum  of  this  three  part, this  part  and  this  part  and this  part  inside  of  this  triangle, area  is  non  negative. To  minimize  this  area  of  this  shaded  area, we  can  only  make  this  area of  this  triangle  zero. If  we  take  the  decision  boundary  or decision  trigo  here  at  this  cross  point  here, then  this  area  of this  shaded  region  is  minimized. Because  for  any  other  decision  region, the  a  include  the  non  zero  area. This  area  will  be  zero  only if  the  decision  boundary  at  this  point. It  is  minimized. The  decision  region  is this  cross  point  on  one  side, the  post  probability  of one  class  ger  than  this  one. The  other  side  a  pot  probability of  a  class  ger  than  this  class. If  we  use  this  as  a  decision, then  the  er  rate, this  area  will  be  minimized. This  is  sionze all  these  principles  we  introduced. Now,  we  visualize  that  based  on  the  variable, the  received  data  is  only  one  dimension. So  that  we  can  use  a  choice  to  separate the  whole  range  of this  x  value  into  two  decision  ranges. If  x  is  just  one  variable, then  we  can  also  very easily  to  visualize  what is  the  PD  class  conion  PDF. Now,  if  the  X  is  more  than  one  value, more  than  one  variable. In  principle. The  whole  idea, the  whole  principle  has  no  difference. They  are  exactly  same. We  just  need  to  replace this  random  variable  x  by  a  vector. That's  all. There's  no  other  difference. This  vector  can  use contain  or  different  variable. There's  no  other  difference. Now,  obviously,  in  the  practice, if  we  know  more  information, then  the  error  rate of  the  prediction  will  reduce. We  can  make  a  better  decision  or better  prediction  because  we predict  it  based  on  more  information. For  example,  if  we  know the  student's  height  and also  know  the  nuns  of  the  higher, then  we  can  do  a  better  prediction. The  error  rate  will  reduced. But  if  we  extend the  one  dimension  into  two,  two  dimension, more  than  two  or  three  dimension or  even  higher  dimension, then  visualization  will  be a  little  bit  more  complicated. Now,  for  example,  in  one  dimensional  case, the  PDF  is  just  a  curve. We  can  very  easily  to  show  the  shape  or the  venue  of  the  curve for  different  venue  of  the  eggs. Very  clearly  see  that, But  even  we  just extend  this  x  into  two  components. We  know  the  height  and  higher. We  have  two  dimensional  input. Then  in  two  dimensional  input, then  the  PDF  will change  from  one  curve  to  a  surface. Because  it's  a  function  of  the  two  variable. I  already  make this  visualization  not  so  straightforward, but  still  can  visualize  it. For  two  variable. Then  for  two  variable, the  decision  tries  so  to  separate one  variable  into  two  region. In  two  variable  case, this  separation  will  meet  a  curve or  a  straight  line  to  separate the  two  dimensional  space to  separate  the  two  dimensional  space into  two  different  regions. We  need  a  curve  or  a  street  line. Here  show  two  class  conditional  PDF and  the  class  boundary to  separate  the  whole  input  space into  two  decision  region. Now,  as  I  mentioned  that, if  we  increase  the  number of  the  dimension  of  the  input, means  we  receive  more  information. Then  in  general, we  will  reduce  the  error  rate. We  will  increase  the  performance. Here  show  example  to visualize  how from  one  dimension  to  two  dimension, in  some  case,  it  can greatly  reduce  the  r  rate. Here,  give  an  example. Suppose  the  data  is  a  two  dimension. Each  point  in  this  two  dimensional  space is  one,  two  sample. Now,  for  two  class  example, suppose  we  have  two  class. This  is  a  distribution of  the  data  of  class  one, this  is  a  distribution of  data  of  the  class  two. Here  is  a  two  dimension. One  sample  one  data, one  input  is  a  point in  this  two  dimensional  space. This  is  a  distribution of  the  two  different  class. Now,  two  dimensional  data  has  two  components. If  we  use  just  the  first  component to  plot  to  the  PDF  along  the  first  component, then  this  two  class  will have  this  two  class  conditional  PDF. Now,  a  arg  component  show  here, we  have  two  class  conditional  PDF. From  this  two  component, we  can  see  whatever  one  single  component, if  we  only  use  one  single component,  this  two  class, the  PDF  is  very  heavily  overlapped. Whatever  decision  twice  you  have, the  error  rate  is  very  large, the  area  of  this  one. The  err  rate  is  very  large. This  two  class  for  either  component, the  two  class  is  heavily  overlapped. The  error  rate  is  very  high. But  if  we  joint  use  this  two  component together  to  find  a  decision  boundary to  separate  this  tool, for  example,  this  green  line. We  can  see  that  these  two  class are  almost  perfectly  separated. The  error  rate  can  be almost  zero  compared  to  this  two  area  here. This  just  to  visionize  an  example, increase  the  number  of  the  dimension. This  means  we  increase our  information  we  have. Of  course,  the  error  rate  will  be  reduced. Now,  we  understand  that  basically  to  make a  optimal  decision  is  just  to predict  the  class that  has  highest  probability. But  the  value  of this  probability  of  the  different  class, we  should  compute  them based  on  all  knowledge  we  have. That  we  express  this  probability  of the  different  class  as  a  poster  probability after  we  receive  the  input to  compute  what  is the  probability  of  the  different  class. This  is  called  a  poster  probability. We  can  compute  it  based  on  this  expression. This  just  come  from  a  very  simple  change in  the  probability  theory. Now,  from  here,  we  can  see the  purpose  to  compute  the  value  of this  probability  is  just  to  compile which  class  has  highest  probability. Then  this  Px,  it is  the  same  value  for  all  different  mga  I. Obviously,  we  can  remove  it because  this  is  just constant  against  different  mga  I. We  can  just  use  Omega  p  Omega  I plus  this  one  to  do  our  prediction. That  means  because  the  apo  probable  value is  only  used  to compile  which  class  is  highest. We  can  simplify  this  expression. It  is  not  necessary. We  must  exactly  compute what  is  apo  probability. Example  is  we  can  just  remove  px, because  it  is  the  same  value for  all  different  class. Now,  even  only  use  this  vue  to  compute this  product  of  this  two  value  to determine  which  class  has  highest  this  value, then  to  do  the  prediction. We  can  further  simplify  it. For  example,  we  can  take the  logarithm  of  this  expression. Because  logitm  will  convert the  multiplication  into  the  summation. Summation  is  easier  than  the  multiplication. If  this  PDF  is  exposure  function, then  after  we  take  the  exposure  function, it's  just  the  index  of  the  exposure  function. We  can  define  a  function of  the  input  variable. A  function  of  the  input  variable  sona as  the  value  of  this  function  is proportional  to  the  poster  probability in  terms  of  the  different  class. Then  we  can  use  this  value to  do  our  prediction. Not  necessarily,  we  must  compute  this  one. We  define  the  so  called  dit  function as  a  function  of  the  input  variable. Because  a  possible  is also  a  function  of  the  input  variable. But  we  define  a  discremint  function, it  may  not  be  exactly same  as  a  possible  viability. So  long  as  it  is  a  proportional  to this  value  to  do  the  correct  prediction. Then  we  can  simplify  our  expression. Here,  we  call a  disc  discreminant  function  because the  value  is  not  no the  exact  possible  viability. We  define  such  discriminant  function then  based  on  the  value  of the  discriminant  function  to  do the  classification  or  to  do  the  prediction. Here,  we  give  an  example, we  take  the  no  grisom  function  of the  product  of  this  tool as  our  discriminant  function, and  then  based  on  the  value  of this  discriminant  function to  make  our  prediction. Now,  clear,  how  this  disc  venue can  be  defined  in this  logitm  can  simplify the  computation  of  this  a  postal  probability. We  take  an  example  if the  class  conditional  PDF  is  a  gain  function. Now,  if  the  class  conditional  function, of  all  class  are  guin  functions  with different  mean  and  conse  matrix for  different  class. Then  we  have  this  class PDF  in  this  expression, this  expression  is  so  called  g  PD  functions. B  gain  function  is very  nice  function,  is  extremely  useful. You  be  familiar  with  this  galen  function. Now,  guan  function  is  uniquely  space fed  by  vector  and  covariance  matrix. Now,  in  the  gaussian  function because  all  other  are  constant, on  this  are  variable related  to  the  variable  of  the  input  g. Well,  this  one  is  our  homo  base  distance between  X  and  the  cust  center or  the  mean  of  the  galcan  functions. Here,  we  take  example, if  the  PDF  is  a  guin, then  what  we  can  gauge  in  terms of  our  defined  discrepant  functions. It  is  an  gorihm  of  the  previously  this  tool. We  can  very  easily  say  if  the  PDF  is  a  gin, we  can  very  easily  ga  this  expression,  right? Now,  from  this  expression,  all  this  one. Some  are  constant  over all  class,  we  can  remove. Here  I  use  just  a  green  cer  to show  this  one  can  safely removed  from  this  function. We  don't  need  to  compute this  one  and  some  into  this  one because  it's  the  same  value  for all  for  all  different  class. Now  this  prio  by  and this  one  is  a  scalar  venue, is  a  scalar  venue. We  use  the  BI  indicate  all  this  one. The  key  component  is  the  first  one,  this  one. The  decriminal  function.  In  fact,  here, the  key  component  is  this  expression. This  expression  is  our  Mab  distance. It  is  the  QD  distance  between  X  and the  clust  center  normalized by  the  class  conditional  covalence  by  tx. Now,  I  say  this  one  is  very  important  where this  BI  is  just  a  choice  is  not  so  important. Because  this  one  will be  in  the  input  space  input  space, will  form  a  curve. This  is  just  a  scar  venue. It  is  just  a  choice. We  put  this  curve  at  a  different  place. The  shape  of  the  curve is  specified  by  the  first, where  the  first  tern  is some  of  the  mah  distance,  right? Now  from  here,  we  see  that mah  pisans  is  very  important  because  we see  that  it  will  need  to the  optimum  class  optimum  prediction. If  the  class  conditional  PDF  is  the  galsin. Dance  again  we  recall  that, it's  just  normalize  the  Euclid  distance. For  the  one  dimensional  case, is  just  the  euclid  distance  normalized  by the  variance  normalized by  the  standard  division. This  is  a  Euclid  distance  square then  normalized  by  the  vari. Here,  the  vari  we determine  the  shape  of  the  galen  funion. The  mean  only  determine the  position  of  the  sulfin  funion. We  put  the  salf  function at  a  different  position where  the  shape  is  determined  by  the  varians, even  for  the  one  dimensional  case. For  high  dimensional  case, the  shape  we  determined by  the  co  variance  matrix. The  mean  only  specify the  position  of  the  guan  PD,  right? Here,  further  to  study what  is  the  shape  of  the  gussiu. As  I  mentioned  that,  the  class  mean  only determine  the  center,  or  the  place, or  the  position  of  the  gaussian  bunion, where  the  coves  matrix  will determine  the  contour  of  this  gaussian  PD. Ct  means  a  curve  along  which the  galen  function  has same  venue,  same  probability  density. Also,  here  it  shows  that  e  form  a  ellipse. That  means  along  the  ellipse, O  point  along  a  ellipse, has  sav  decence  to  the  center. A  point  along  the  ellipse has  same  probability  density. For  the  gui  case, it  will  form  a  lip  shape. Of  course,  if  we  just  use  a  few  tiny  sample, it  may  not  be  clearly, a  cloud  of  the  distribution  of  the  sample, will  form  a  lips. But  if  we  use a  huge  number  of  the  tiny  sample, it  will  clearly  show  a  shape  of  the  lips. Here,  we  know  that  for  the  case, if  the  class  fction  of  PDF  is  going, then  our  optimal  prediction or  classification  is  just  to evaluate  this  discominant  function to  see  which  class  has highest  value  of  this  discominant  function. We  discinan  function  is  a  function  of  the, the  input  variable, input  data  with  this  expression. Now,  what  is  this  expression? We  aref  to  see  that  from  here, if  we  simplify  this  one, multiply  them  together, we  will  see  that the  discretional  function  for a  gaucin  PDF  is  a  crotic  function  of  the  X. Because  if  we  multiply  them  together, we  can  easily  get  this  expression  where  this big  is  a  matrix  is  equals  to  this  one, and  this  is  a  v  inverse  of  the  cons  matrix multiplied  by  the  mean  vector  then  becomes to  a  vector  Well, this  is  just  a  scat  of  value. The  discretional  function  is a  aquatic  function  in the  input  space  X  in  the  input  space  x. If  x  is  just  one  variable, then  this  disc  is  a  curve. If  this  is  two  dimensional  vector, then  it  is  a  surface. One.  We  call  this  function as  a  aquatic  function  and the  decision  surface  so called  atica  or  aquatic  curve. Here  show  some  kind  of the  decision  boundary  for two  dimensional  cas  of  this  roogic  curve. It  is  formed  by  the  two  class. Both  are  gain  PDF  with  different  class, different  class  conditional  cons  matrix. The  decision  boundary  will  be  aquatic  curve, is  a  second  order  of  the  X. It's  just  a  second  order because  here  we  can  see  that this  discriminate  function  is the  second  order  of  the  g. It's  a  ag  curve. Decision  boundary  is  just  the  equation of  gx  to  GJ. D  criminal  function  of the  two  class  has  same  value. For  all  x  will  form a  decision  boundary  to separate  the  two  class  into  two  region. The  crotic  curve  will show  such  kind  of  the  different  shape. It  can  be  such  kind  of  shape,  or  this  one, or  the  two  curve  called hynlso  even  the  two  class has  same  class  center. If  the  cons  matrix  are  different, it  can  also  form  abs  or  a  circle. This  is  possible  shape  of  the  quatic  curve, the  second  order  of  the  X  is  the  input  space. Now,  of  course,  atic  curve  is  a  mania, but  it's  only  second  order, it's  just  x  squared. Second  order. But  even  just  the  second  order,  the  at  curve, it  can  be  very  complicated if  the  X  has  higher  dimension. Here,  just  to  show  if the  input  space  is  a  three  dimension, then  the  decision  boundary becomes  to  a  surface. The  aquatic  surface  can  be complicated  compared  to  aquatic  curve. This  is  aquatic  surface. Then  we  can  imagine  if the  input  x  is high  dimension  higher  than  three, then  the  class  boundary though  it  is  a  second  order  of  the  input  X, it  can  be  very  complicated. Now,  even  for  the  two  dimensional  case, although  a  decision  boundary  separate two  class  is  a  aquatic  curve  of  the  X, but  if  we  have  the  multiple  class  problem. Then  we  have many  different  quatic  curve  miked  together. It  can  also  form a  very  complicated  decision  boundary. This  even  for  two  dimensional  case. Multiple  class. Now,  here  show  some  numerical  example how  to  compute  it. Suppose  the  gauing  function  is specified  by  mean  vector  and  cores  matrix. Now,  given  a  set  of  the  training  data, we  can  use  this  formula  to  compute  what  is, what  is  the  cos  matrix. Then  it  will  specify  a  gain  PDF. Then  based  on  that,  we  can  design our  optimum  class  sphere to  have  the  optimum  decision  boundary. Now  in  this  numeric  example suppose  we  have  two  class. The  training  data  has four  samples  of  this  four  dot. The  training  data  of  arge  class  is this  four  t  dot. Now,  based  on  the  two  dimensional  value, the  coordinate  of  this  four  point, we  can  compute  what  is  the  mean  vector, what  is  the  co  metric  for  both  class. Now,  we  can  see  that  the two  mean  vector  are  different, the  two  cons  matrics  are  also  different. Although  the  cons  matrics  of  both  are  zero, but  because  the  variance are  different  for  this  two  class, then  the  optimal  class  boundary is  not  a  street  nine. It  is  a  aquatic  curve  here. It  is  also  not  difficult  to understand  because  for  this  black  class, horizon,  it  is  very  narrow. For  the  red  class  horizonal, it  is  wide  than  this  one. Obviously,  the  class  boundary will  be  side  of  the  curve. That  make  the  density of  black  class  in  this  position  and the  density  of  red  class  in this  position  the  same  along  this  curve. Not  a  straight  ne. Of  course,  we  can  also based  on  this  numerical  value, if  you  want  compute  eight, you  can  also  compute  eight. I  find  that  it  is  such  of  the  curve. Now,  after  we  study  this  general  case  of the  Gus  PDF  of  all  class. Then  we  will  study  some  spatial  case. The  first  case  is  now  we suppose  all  class  has  the  same  cons  methods, but  a  different  center. That  means  all  sigma I  for  different  class  are, then  what  we  can  get. What  is  the  optimum  prediction or  optimal  classy? Now,  if  all  sigma  I  are  same,  basically, that  decreman  function becomes  to  this  expression, we  just  change  this  sigma  I  into a  common  sigma  because they  are  same  for  all  I. Then  if  we  multiply  these  terms  together, then  we  get  this  the  next  line. Just  multiply  these  three  terms. Then  we  find  that,  the  first  term, it  is  a  second  order  of  the  input  variable. It  is  the  same  for  all  I. For  all  class, the  value  of  this  term  are  same. To  determine  which  class has  highest  value  of  the  g, this  term  does  not  contribute. We  can  remove  this  one. As  a  result,  we can  simplify  our  decal  function into  this  expression  by remove  this  constant  different  I. Then  we  get  this  expression. Then  we  find  that,  this  expression  is just  a  linear  function  of  the  X  input  data, the  variable  of  the  input, is  a  meniar  function  of  the  X. This  dc  not  function  is  aia  If  we  use it  to  classify  the  X  into  different  class, we  call  this  classpar  classp. Now,  if  for  such  linear  class, the  class  boundary  is  the  Gi  equals  to  gg, then  the  equation  will  be also  mimiar  function  of  the  X. The  class  boundary  will  be the  hyperplan  for  high  dimensional  case. For  two  dimensional  case  is three  to  nine  for  Set  aimional  case, it  is  a  plane. For  high  dimensional  case, we  call  it  a  hyperplane. Anyway,  it  is  a  linear  function  of  the  eggs. Because  class  boundary  is the  discriminant  value  of  the  two  class  sm. For  all  eggs,  satisfy  this  equation, we  form  the  boundary. This  boundary  is  a linear  function  of  the  eggs. It  is  ste  for  two  dimensional  eggs, a  plane  for  suit  dimional  case, or  hyperplane  for  higher  dimensional  case. Now,  this  hyperplane,  we  can  also figure  out  it  is  this  expression. Compute  the  W  matrix  WG, then  it  is  because  WG  is  this  one. I  multiply  by  inverse  of  this  sigma  s  matrix. Basically,  we  can  get this  decision  boundary  decision  boundary. Now  from  here,  we  can  first, we  should  keep  this  in  our  ment. Although  here  we  study the  spacepic  case  that all  class  has  same  cosmetics. A  class  has  cosmetics  does  not  mean the  cosmetics  can  be removed  from  our  decision. A  class  same  cosmetics  does  not  mean the  nsmetc  is  useless  for  optimal  classifier. It  does  not  mean  this  nsmetri does  not  contain  useful  information  because our  class  bound the  optimal  class  boundary  is  computed by  also  net  use  the  common  cosmetics. This  common  cons  matrix, we  make  this  boundary, the  linear  function  of  the  x. This  boundary  is  not also  go  to  the  nine  mink, the  two  class  center. Because  from  the  icons, we  know  if  we  have  the  function, some  value  multiply  by  all  variable, then  equals  to  a  constant. Then  this  vector  will  form  a  vector  normalize to  this  nine  or  normalize  to  the  surface. I. Then  this  surface,  we  are  not  also  going to  nine  mink  the  two  class  centers. It's  normalized  to  the  whole  to  this  nine, multiply  by  the  inverse  of  the  cons  matrix. Even  corns  matric  are  same  for  all  class, we  suppose  it  is  the  same. We  just  use  the  Corns  metric, suppose  all  are  same, but  they  are  still useful  to  determine  the  best  class  fhere, or  the  best  predictor. The  separation  it's  a  street nine  or  a  surface  or  a  plane, but  it  is  not  also  going  to  the nine  the  two  cluster  centers. Not  also  going  to. Here  you  visualize  this  decision  boundary in  two  dimensional  case. The  decision  boundary  is  nine. Although  it  is  street  nine, but  this  ste  is  not  also  going  to  the nine  this  two  cluster Ba  two  cls  center  is  here, that  crust  boundary  is  also  going  to  that, it  so  be  the  nine, here,  the  nine  direction  must  be  here. Anyway,  the  direction  of  this nine  to  separate  the  space into  the  two  decision  region, this  direction  is  determined  by  this  term. This  term. It  is  the  two  cs  multiply  b  inwards of  the  co  matrix. Then  this  go  value  tris  is  just to  used  to  determine the  position  of  this  nine. For  example,  different  value of  the  remaining  part, depends  on  this  nine is  por  shift  into  different  position. Be  it's  basically  a  trio. Now,  this  is  a  two  dimensional  case. For  three  dimensional  case, then  the  decision  the decision  boundary  is  a  plane. But  this  plane  is  not  also going  to  the  nine  link  the  two  class  centers. Okay. So  here,  I  emphasize  this  one is  from  this  simple  mathematics. If  you  know  this  simple  mathematics, we  should  know  this  effect  is  a very  straightforward,  a  common  sense. The  decision  boundary  is  not  also  going  to the  nine  of  the  difference  of the  two  crust  centers. This  is  very  easy  to  say  that. But  sometimes  many  people may  forget  this  one, then  somehow  the  generate  method or  approach  could  be  totally  w. Now,  for  example,  because  what  means this  nine  link  these  two  centers? If  we  see  the  nine  link  these  two  centers, we  form  one  dimension. This  dimension  only  depends on  these  two  class  centers. Somehow  even  we  suppose all  class  has  same  cons  matrics, does  not  mean  the  classification only  depends  on  the  cluster  center. If  the  ultimo  classifier only  depends  on  the  two  clus  c, then  the  classification  be  also go  to  this  ne  because we  only  use  the  information along  the  difference  of  the  two  clus  centers. But  from  previous  expression, it  clearly  show  that the  optimal  clasphere  is not  in  this  one  dimension. The  show  difference  of the  two  cluster  center. The  common  cons  matrix  will  also  very argely  affect  what  is  the  optimal  decision. It's  not  just  within the  one  dimension  determined by  the  variation  of  the  two  cluster  center. This  is  a  very  basic  concept, but  even  some  very  famous  professor could  forget  it  to  generate  some  approach, it  is  somehow  contradictory to  this  very  simple  theory. Now,  for  example, for  the  dimensionality  reduction. Someone  produce  the  method  can  extract feature  based  on  reduce the  high  dimension  into  null  dimension, and  one  famous  method  is  called  direct  LDA. This  direct  LDA  reduce the  high  dimensional  data  into  dimension. This  dimension  only  span  by the  difference  or  variation of  the  cluster  centers. Then  this  work  paper  claim that  to  do  the  classification, we  only  need  the  information spent  by  the  space  of the  variation  of  the  cluster  center. So  we  can  remove  all  other  dimensions. This  approach  even  published  in some  very  good  journals. But  then  after  that,  of  course, we  have  so  many  researcher  in  the  world. Then  some  researcher  criticize  it. This  approach,  this  claim  is  one  because the  best  classification  is  not  just based  on  the  variation of  the  different  cust  center. Even  we  assume  the  condition that  all  class  same  corns  matrix. This  cons  matrix, it  is  still  within  class  variation. It  is  still  determining the  best  classification. Still  useful  for determining  the  best  classification. In  fact,  from  here,  it's  very  clear the  best  classification  class  boundary is  determined  by  this  formula. This  equation,  it's  very  important  that the  different  value  of this  cons  matrix  common  cons  matrix. Although  it  is  the  same  for  all  class, it  still  make the  decision  boundary  differently  with different  value  of  this  cons  matrix. Clearly  show  that. It's  not  that  the bast  decision  boundary  is  not  just specified  by  the  different  vectors of  the  different  class. But  sometimes  some  very  simple  principles somehow  can  be  forgot by  even  very  high  rank  of  the  people. Now,  again, we  have  show  some  numeric  examples. Suppose  we  have  the  training  data. Each  two  class. Each  class  has  five  training  samples. Then  this  numeric  example just  show  how  to  compute the  mean  vectors  and class  conditional  cons  matrics. Given  this  numeric  value of  the  training  samples, this  is  a  way  to  compute the  two  mean  vectors  and  next  one, we  can  use  this  formula  to compute  the  cons  matrix  of  one  class. Here,  we  use  the  Chinese five  Chinese  sample  of one  class  to  compute the  consomtric  of  class  one. But  in  this  example, although  the  Chinese  sample of  this  two  class  are  different, but  this  two  class  has  same  canso  matrics. Numerically  if  you  compute  it, they  will  have  the  same  consmtri, but  at  this  numeric  example to  show  how  to  compute  the  cornso  matrix, but  given  a  Chinese  sample,  right? Now,  after  we  compute  it, we  can  based  on that  because  this  two  class  has  the same  because  this  two  class has  same  class  conditional  co  matrix. We  can  very  easily  to  compute the  disc  function  for  the  two  class. But  here,  this  numeric  example  directly gives  this  expression  to compute  this  disc  function. It  is  not  necessary  for  you  to  memorize  it. In  the  exam  in  your  taste, I  never  require  you  to  memorize  any  formula. An  formula  without  clear  physical  meaning, you  don't  need  to  memorize  it. For  example,  instead  of  memorize it  to  compute  the  discant  function, what  more  important  sense  is, we  should  know  in  the  gain  assumption, that  discoa  function  is  a  function of  this  may  distance. This  has  physical  meaning. It  depends  on  a  shape  of  the  gu  PDF. This  is  a  man  distance,  right? In  many  place  in the  nature,  we  mentioned  that. This  formula,  you  should any  way  keep  in  your  mind. No  memorize  any  formula without  clearly  physical  anion. This  is  just  derived  by  this  one. By  remove  the  asic  terms because  for  same  cons  matric. Anyway,  this  numeric  example  to  show  how to  compute  this  two discriminant  function  for  the  two  class, and  then  based  on  that, we  can  have  two  equation to  compute  the  two  discriminant  function, then  decision  boundary  is equation  net  two  discriminant  function  equal. All  the  difference  is  zero. Then  based  on  this  difference  is  zero, we  can  get  what  is  the  decision  boundary. Then  if  this  difference of  this  two  decree  man  function, are  than  zero  is  for  one  class, smaller  than  zero  is  the  other  class. Now,  this  is  one  special  example  if all  class  has  same coors  matrics  thenar  function. But  the  coors  matric although  it  is  same  for  all  class, but  it's  still  very  useful for  the  optimal  claspe. Now,  next  week,  we haven't  completed  all  content, but  I'll  have  a  small  part of  we  need  to  next  week, we  study  further  spatial  case. That's  all  for  tonight.  Thank  you.
