Only  the  first  row  is  reserved for  those  who  are  taking  the  paper  quiz, if  we  have  technical  issues. Guys,  are  you  coming  down? Okay.  So  everybody  settle  down, go  into  your  responders  browser, make  sure  it's  working. If  somehow  you  have  log in  issues  or  cannot  log  in, come  to  the  front, you  can  take  the  paper  quiz. Okay.  These  are  the  pastes. Please  out. Me  make  sure  you  can  log  in. Okay,  guys,  make  sure  that you  don't  let  your  screen  go  off. Otherwise,  you  need  to  re  enter  the  passcode, and  I  have  changed  the  passcode for  security  reasons. It's  not  the  same  as  the  first  one. This  will  prevent  any  body from  eating  right  online. Me  sure  that  your  screen we  are  doing  the  quiz. Okay.  If  you  finish, you  can  submit  e.  It's  up  to  you. We  will  have  the  regular after  the  quiz.  I  will  review. If  you  want  to  submit  earlier  is  fine, but  please  don't  disturb  your  classmates. You  can  just  go outside  and  stay  outside.  Okay. Okay.  I  think  all of  you  should  have  finished. Anybody  still  working  on  the  quiz, the  times  would  have  run  out  unless somehow  you  started  very  late. Anybody  still  doing  the  quiz? Okay.  Yeah.  Then  we  take  a  10  minutes  break, right  come  815,  I will  go  review  for  the  contents. So  I  mean,  you  most  welcome  to  stay  back, right  for  the  rest  of  the  lecture, we  so  will  be  reviewing  some  psi  quions. Okay. Okay. Okay.  Today,  we  are  just  going  to do  a  recap  of  the  first  half  of  this  course. A  quick  recap.  Basically,  what have  we  covered  in  f  h? Basically,  we  have  introduced the  pipeline  for  machine  learning. In  your  machine  learning  applications, you  always  have  to  based  on  your  application, you  have  to  decide  what  model, what  is  the  model  you  are  going  to use  for  your  particular  application. This  will  depend  on  the  kind  of  data that  you  have  and what  you're  trying  to  achieve. In  the  first  half,  we  basically look  at  probablistic  models. We  started  off  with  the  simple  distributions, and  then  build  up  slowly. Using  the  simple  distributions, combine  them  together  to  get  mixture  models, and  then  we  We  further see  how  to  compose  them together  in  order  to model  temporal  relationships. We  have  the  markov  models and  the  hidden  markov  models. After  your  recess,  then we  will  learn  about  all  these  MLPs, multi  layer  perceptions,  neural  networks. These  are  the  more  modern models  that  people  use. But  in  a  lot  of  applications, this  will  still  be the  preference because  these  are  interpretable. You  can  use  probability to  explain  the  models. Okay. Regardless  of  which  model  you  use  typically, we  need  to  find  the  parameters of  the  model  weights. We  have  to  define  what is  we  have  to  define the  model  in  terms  of  the  model  parameters, and  then  we  want  to  learn the  optimal  parameters from  the  training  data. So  we  talk  about using  the  maximum  likelihood  estimation, the  maximum  A  posterior  estimation. These  are  the  two  typical techniques  that  people  use. We  have  the  MAP  in the  case  where  you  have additional  information, you  have  some  additional  belief or  prior  information about  the  model  parameters, then  you  can  incorporate  that but  if  you  don't, then  people  will  just  use  the  MLE. And  then  we  saw that  for  some  of  the  more  complicated  models, like  the  the  mixture  models and  the  Mico  models, you  cannot  find  the  MLE  so  directly. For  the  mixture  models,  or  in  general, we  can  use  the  EM  algorithm to  try  to  approximate  the  MLE. And  then  we  also  saw how  to  do  this  for  the  MAP, is  just  basically  changing the  state  in  the  EM  algorithm. And  then  when  it  comes  to  hidden  MC  models, the  special  version  of  the  EM  algorithm is  called  the  bone  wash  algorithm. So  this  is  specialized  for  the  HMM. These  are  the  cases  where you  still  have  a  probabilistic  distribution, you  are  able  to  estimate the  model  parameters using  a  probabilistic  distribution. But  in  a  lot  of  applications, your  distribution  can  be  very  complicated. You  can't  even  write  down the  closed  form  of  the  distribution. It  could  be  something  very  complicated. Then  in  the  last  two  weeks, we  basically  talk  about  how  to  do  sampling. And  this  Marco  chain  Monte  Carlo  technique, which  is  a  sampling  technique, how  to  sample  from  the  target  distribution that  you  want  to  model. Then  being  able  to  sample  allows  you  to do  a  lot  of  things  like  computing the  average,  computing  the  expectation, and  then  you  can  use  this expectation  or  you  can use  this  sangring  to compute  a  confidence  interval. Then  you  can  then  make  use  of  this, to  be  the  estimate  of  your  model  parameters. Yeah.  This  will  be one  of  the  most  general  techniques that  you  can  use. In  the  second  half  of  the  course, you  will  top  about these  stochastic  grading  design. This  is  another  general  technique  that  people can  make  use  of  to  try to  learn  the  optimal  model  parameters. In  fact,  you  can  actually  apply these  to  all  these  things  as  well. But  I  didn't  go  in  detail, but  there's  one  python  notebook  that  actually demonstrates  to  you  that although  this  is  a  very  general  technique, but  when  it  comes  to  say  mixture  models, it's  actually  better  to  use  the  EM  algorithm directly  because  this  is specialized,  to  solve  that  problem. If  you  use  this  one,  it  will take  a  long  time  to  converge. Although  you  have  a  general  technique, it  doesn't  mean  that  you  throw  away all  these  others  because  these are  more  effective, more  efficient  in  the  right  applications. Okay.  Then  after  you  have  learned the  model  parameters, you  basically  want  to use  it  in  influence  time, right  and  we  talk  about  the  different  metrics that  we  can  use  to  evaluate the  generalization  of  the  model. Okay.  So  please  go  to  the  Clap. Today,  you  can  also still  earn  the  Clap  points, Basically  this  will  be  counted as  one  of  the  sessions  as  well. These  are  some  of  the  past  year  exam qua  Let's  try  to  through  them  together. This  is  the  A  Y  24  25. Here  you  have  some  survey on  pedestrians  or  cyclists. You  want  to  basically people  are  doing  the  survey  and  they are  trying  to  see  to identify  those  who  are  ver. Vulnerable  means  the  pedestrian  or the  cyclist  is  below  10-years-old  or above  65-years-old  or  is  handicapped. This  pedestrian  has  a  probability of  data  zero  of  being  valuable. This  is  something  unknown.  This  is something  we  need  to estimate  from  the  survey. Then  the  cyclist  has  a  probability of  Data  one  of  being  vulable. Again,  it's  something  unknown. We  want  to  estimate  the  values  of data  zero  and  Data  one  from  the  data. So  He  conducts  a  survey  of 100  randomly  selected  pedestrians and  50  randomly  selected  cyclists. He's  assumed  the  data  points  are  independent. He  finds  that  out  of  these  100  pedestrians, 20  of  them  are  vable, out  of  the  50  cyclists, five  of  them  are  vulnerable. We  want  to  then  find the  MLE  estimate  of  data  zero  and  data  one. Okay.  So  take  a  couple  of  minutes to  try  to  see  whether  you  can  work  this  out. I  mean,  you  don't  have  to work  out  the  full  solution, have  a  general  idea. How  would  you  approach  this? Right?  Be  able  to  have  a  general  idea of  what  would  be your  approach  if  this  is  in  the  exam? The  hin  here  is  that  because everything  is  independent  and all  the  data  are  independent, we  don't  need  to  meet the  pedestrians  and  cyclists. We  can  consider  them  separately, and  then  we  can  estimate the  data  zero  based  on the  pedestrian  data  and Data  one  based  on  the  cyclist  data. Because  they  are  independent  data is  not  going  to  affect  data  zero. The  pedestrian  data  is not  going  to  affect  data  one. So  we  can  separate  them. Okay. So  basically,  right,  to  find  the  MLE, we  need  to  write  down  the  livelihood, right,  theho  So  basically  your  livelihood? Your  likelihood  is  in  either  case, is  going  to  be  proportion  to  Data  k, k  can  be  either  01. Data  K  to  the  power of  how  many  are  vulnerable, that's  called  the  R  K. R  K  is  equals  to  number of  vulnerable  vulnerable.  Okay. For  either  the  pedion  or  the  cycle. Basically  the  ped  with that  as  k  equals  to  zero,  k  equals  to  one. K  is  a  label to  differentiate  between  pation  and  cyclic. This  is  the  probability  of  being  ver, then  R  K  is  the  number. You  likelihood  is  data  k  to  power  K  and  then the  res  is  basically  So  n  k, right,  nk  is  the  total  number  minus  r  k. So  n  zero  is  given  to  be  100,  right, and  n  one  is  given  to  be  50, and  R  zero  is  what  is  20, R  one  is  five,  right?  Okay. Okay.  So  same  thing  as  before, we  take  the  lot,  we compute  the  lot  like  hood. Then  you  can  take  the  partial  derivative. You  set  zero,  and then  you'll  be  able  to  solve  for  this  one. This  should  be  giving  you exactly  the  R  K  over  K.  In  particular, your  R  zero  will  be  0.2, and  the  estimate,  the  estimate  of  Data  00.2, estimate  of  data  one  will  be  0.1. Okay.  So  that's  the  MLE.  Tan?  Any  questions? Okay.  So  MLE.  Okay.  So  next. So  now  MAP,  right. So.  So  another  S,  right, S  now  has  a  prior  belief is  your  theta,  right? The  prior  belief  is  distributed  according to  You  had  the  same  pier  we  believe. The  same  pi,  this  the  Beta. Your  Beta  PDF  is theta  A  minus  11  minus  theta  b  minus  one. You  A  here  is  two, one  minus  theta  squa,  B  s. We  want  to  find  the  MAP. So  MAP  is  basically  just  the  lot  like  hood, right,  and  then  plus  lot  pirate. If  we  take  the  lot p  ir  lot  pirata  k for  each  value  of  k plus  two  log  log  minus  data. Data  K.  Then  to  find  the  AP,  right? We  just  take the  lot  likelihood  log  likelihood. Plus  the  lock  py. This  will  give  us  so  basic  from  here. We  have  lock  dt  plus  n  k  minus r  k  and  then  plus  py. I  the  additional  terms you  can  simplify,  combine  them  together. We  have  k  plus  one. So  from  here,  everything  is actually  just  algebra,  the  same  as  before. So  it's  just  different  sales  with  respect  to Data K. Set  20. So  your  MAP  estimate. So  this  is  now  the  MAP  estimator. Previously,  this  one  is  the  MLE. So  this  one  MAP. So  maybe  I  write  MAP  here. MLE.  This  one  would  be. You  do  the  algebra you  get  finally  after you  solve  it,  it'll  be  ds. Okay. The  theta  zero  MAP  would be  the  RK  previously  R  zero,  20. So  we  have  21/103, and  then  theta  one  MAP  would  be  five. The  15  out  of  50. So  we  have  six  out  of  53. So  that  would  be  MAP  estimate. Okay? Okay.  So  okay. Yeah,  this  one  a  bit  h  I  think  for  your  c, you  should  be  able  to  see  M  one is  a  bit  hard  to  see.  Let  me  see. I. Yeah, I  also  maybe  s  one.  Wait  a  minute. Yeah,  I  hope  your student  version  should  be  better. This  question,  actually,  I think  I  also  put  this  as  one  of the  practice  problems  in  one  of the  week  lecture  slides. Now  you  have  another  person. He  collect  his  own  survey. He  doesn't  have  the.  We  conduct a  survey  of  100  persons  and  record whether  each  is  able  or  not. As  equals  one  S  equals  to  z. But  he  forgot  to  record whether  the  person  is  a  pedestrian  cyclist. So  basically  meets  up  the  pedestrian  cyclis can  see  that  now  this  is actually  a  mixture  distribution. So  I  give  you  a  XI. This  XI  is  either  one  or  zero, but  it  could  be  from  the  theta  zero, the  pn  distribution  with parameter  Theta  zero  or  it  could  be  from the  nuit  distribution and  parameter  Theta  one, there  are  two  distributions. You  pedestrian,  the  pedestrian is  Bodi  theta  zero. This  is  a  binary  distribution is  vdable  or  not  vulnerable  10. Then  your  cyclis  is distributed  according  to  Bernodi  Data  one. Now  we  actually  have  Dunson  w  is P  cyclis  become  a  mixture of  these  two  distributions. We  have  this  Berni but  what  is  the  the  mixing  ratio? This  one,  we  have  to  go  back  to the  to  the  Part  one. Basically,  the  P  one  tells  you  that the  proportion  of  predation to  cyclis  is  four  to  one. So  it  is  four  to  one. Predation  is  four  out  of  five, and  then  cycle  is  one  out  of  five. This  is  the  mixture  distribution. So  you  can  data  to  be  the  overall  parameter. This  overall  parameter  consists of  both  theta  zero  and  theta  one. This  is  your  mixture  distribution. That's  for  one  sample  point. Now  we  want  to  write  now  the  log  likelihood, for  the  whole  data  set. The  lot  likelihood  for  the  whole  data  set as  one  as  100. Be  ID,  so  this becomes  of  the  individual  likelihoods, and  then  of  the  I  is  coming  from  here, We  have  lot  of  the  first  one,  four  fifth, 4/5  of  the  data zero  to  power  of  x  Because  your  SI  is  10. Remember  your  bov  you  can  write  as theta  one  minus  one  minus  if  X  is  10. This  02p1  minus  d  zero,  one  minus  x. Then  plus  one  fifth  theta  one x  minus  theta  one  minus  x. That  is  lot  like  hood. We  have  to  fill  in  the  blank  here. 11  will  be  dt  zero. Yeah.  One  be  the  zero, two  is  also  zero, three  is  one  minus. Four  is  theta  one,  five  is  X. Sorry,  this  be. Is,  six  is  six  is  one,  seven  is. One  minus  seven  is  one. And  is  everybody  clear  about  this? You  have  to  write  out  the  whole  hood, then  you  can  fill  in  the  black. Now  we  want  to  find  the  MLE. We  can  see  that  this is  a  mixture  distribution, the  log  interchange  with  the  summation. The  lo  cannot  interchange  the  summation. Very  difficult  to  differentiate  with respect  to  Data  zero  and  Data  one. What  we  do?  We  have  to  use  the  EM. So  we  use  the  EM  algorithm. What  is  a  suitable  algorithm? We  just  have  to  use  the  EM  algorithm. Justify  writing  some  qualitative  reason. Basically,  what  I  described the  lot  and  the  summation  cannot  interchange, the  differentiation  become  intractable, then  that's  why  we  use  the  EM. Okay. Okay,  next  is k.  This  one  is  now  talking  about  Metropoli. So  maybe,  maybe  you can  take  a  couple  of  minutes to  try  to  see  whether  you  can  get  it. This  is  your  target  distribution, is  a  normalized  version,  right? This  guy  is  unnormalized. Then  you  have  a  proposal distribution  with  the  Gausian. Okay.  Now  sample  a  equals  one, and  you  happen  to  draw  another  sample. So  you  are  basically  drawing  from  the  gasian. You  get  equals  two,  right. Now  we  just  want  to  compute the  acceptance  probability. Sorry.  Yes.  I  I  I  need  to. Yeah,  yes.  Yeah.  Okay. Okay.  So  we  so  we  okay.  Yeah. This  one  is  really  does a  computation  problem, you  just  have  to  know the  formula  for  the  acceptance  probability. Yeah.  This  acceptance  probability is  something  that  you  should write  down  in  your  reference  sheet. So  is  not  something you  want  to  don't  need  to  remember, write  down  your  reference  sheet. What's  your  acceptance  probability  for the  metropolitan  X  Y  current  states, you  draw  a  sample  y, then  you  accept  with  this  probability. Pi  the  nnomize  version Q  y  x  over  Pi  x  Q  x  y. This  is  your  acceptance  probability. Okay. Then  we  just  have  to  plug  in  everything. P.  P  y  we know  this  is  the  normalized  version  E  power minus  absolute  value  of  x. This  E  minus  absolute  value  of  y. Then  the  proposal. This  is  the  mean, the  Q  y  x  is  the  Gain  distribution. Evaluated  x  will  mean y  and  then  Sigma  square  is  one. Then  this  guy  at  the  bottom  is y  given  the  mean  is  x, and  Sigma  square  is  one. This  one  is  x  y  one  divided  by  minus  one. This  we  put  in  everything  minus  y  is  two, y  equals  to  two  x  equals  to  one. Minus  two. And  the  gaussian  Gaussian This  gal  is  one  over  square  root  two  Pi. The  Sigma  square  is  one  e minus  x  minus  y  square  over  two. Of  course,  this  concern  doesn't  matter because  at  the  top  and bottom  that  will  cancel  out, we  just  have  to  focus on  the  exponential  part. Times  E  minus  x  minus  one  minus  two  square. Divided  by  e  minus  now  is  x minus  one  times  e  minus. I  mean,  x  minus  y  squared or  y  minus  x  squared  is  the  same  as. Anyway,  let  me  write. So  these  two  we  cancel  out. So  we  are  left  with  this  one. This  will  be  e  minus  one. Of  course,  this  is  less  than  one. So  that's all  your  final  answers,  e  p  minus  one. So  I  think  most  of  you  got  correct. So  it's  approximately  0.3  s79. So  that's  your  apt  terms  probability.  Okay. Okay.  It's  a  bit  small, but  I  hope  your  one  can  zoom  in. My  one  can  o  me.  Okay. It's  a  bit  small.  Here,  you have  a  damaged  manuscript. The  manuscript  is  consists of  a  sequence  of  characters,  right, and  each  character  can  be  one  of two  states  damaged  or  undamaged  D  or  U. And  then  we're  trying  to restore  the  true  state based  on  what  is  observed. So  underlying  right. Underlying  is,  um  is the  two  state  is  either  damaged or  undamaged,  either  D  or  U. The  z  is  the  character, the  two  state  is  D  or  u. But  what  we  observe is  XI  this  SI  is  also  D  or  U, right  you  are  observing  something that  you  think  is  damaged  or  undamaged. But  it  may  not  be  something that  you  think  is  damaged. The  character  may  actually be  a  undamaged  character,  right. It  could  be  some  because this  is  ancient  manuscript, maybe  this  is  a  very  special  character, right,  you  think  that's  damaged, but  actually  the  true  one  is  really  that. So  what  you  observed is  from  the  same  state  space, but  you  don't  know  whether  it corresponds  to  the  true  state  or  not,  right? So  the  I  are  the  latent  state. We'll  record  the  s.  Basically, this  is  a  hidden  markov  model. So  we  have  We assume  it  is  a  sequence  of  characters. We  are  going  to  model  the  latent  states as  a  mark  of  chen  because  it's  a  sequence. We  make  sense  to  model  it  as  a  mark  cha. Then  what  we  observe are  the  s.  Okay. And  then  the  emission. So  these  are  the  emission probabilities  over  here. So  basic  Yeah. If  the  true  state  is  D, then  it's  going  to  emit  D  also, XI  is  going  to  be  D  probability  Alpha. Of  course,  you  know  that  because X  I  can  only  be  D  or  U,  right. So  this. This  This  part  this  is specified  by  this  probability  x  equals  to  D, given  z  i  equals  to  d,  this  is  Alpha. Then  of  course,  this  one,  we  know  that  Xi equals  to  u  given  z  i  equals to  d  is  one  minus  Alpha equal  binary,  and  probability. Now  this  is  condition  on  z  equals  to  b. Then  of  course  to fully  specify  the  distribution, I  need  to  also  tell  you  what's the  probability  when  zi  equals  to  u. I  equals  to  d, this  is  given  by  Beta. Then  of  course,  I  know  that  i  equals  to u  given  z  i  equals  to  u  is  one  minus  Beta. Although  the  question  just specify  Alpha  and  Beta, you  should  be  able  to  infer, because  it's  a  binary  distribution, that's  why  you  have the  full  distribution  over  here. The  full  emission  distribution  specification. Okay.  And  then  because  the  sequence, we  assume  that  the  zi  is z  i  minus  one  and  i  plus  one. Z  is  is  a  markov  chain. So  we  assume  there's  only correlation  between  the  two. And  the  conditional  distribution  on  z given  everything  else  will only  depend  on  minus  one  and  z  plus  one. This  one  is  given  by some  Gama  to  the  power  of equal  z  minus  one  plus indicator  equals  z  plus  one. For  example,  if  I  have  z  I  go D  and  then  then  I  go  d. This  will  be  gamma  one  plus  one  gama  squared. If  this  is  d  d  d, then  it  will  be  gama one  p  zero,  then  it  will  be  a. This  will  specify  the  full  relationship. Now  we  want  to  derive all  this  conditional  dist. This  question  is  actually  very similar  to  what  we  saw in  the  de  noising example  in  the  lecture  slides. Except  in  the  de  noising  we're looking  at  two  D.  Two  d  image. Now  at  this  question is  looking  at  something  simpler basically  just  one  D. The  Zs  are  following  a  sequence. Whereas  in  the  lecture  slide, the  z  is  actually image  so  we  have  multiple  neighbors. Here  is  only  two  neighbors. Then  we  have  to  derive  the  conditional. Basically,  we  want  to  use  git  sampling  here, same  as  what  we  did  in  the  lecture. We  can  dive  so  let's  say  Z  I  goes  to  D, given  everything  else, and  of  course  condition on  the  observation  a  side. This  would  be  using  your  base  rule, so  this  will  be  proportional to  Ci  equals  to  d given  minus  I.  Multiply  by. So  this  I  only  depends  on  that.  So  the It  only  depends  on  XI. This  one,  we  can basically  we  just  have  to  focus  on. Using  your  basal,  you basically  take  out  the  ZI  first, and  then  now  the  XI  will  be conditioned  on  CI  equals  to D.  Now  this  guy is  given  by  this,  this  guy  over  here. This  is  proposal  Gama  of  what's  that  I  minus one  e  b  last  Ci plus  one  equals  to  d.  Then  this  guy. This  is  this  Bon, this  is  a  Boni  binary  distribution, with  probability  Alpha  equals to  d  and  one  minus  Alpha  equals  to  u. So  we  can  write  S. We  probability  Alpha  is going  to  be  x  i  equals  to  d, and  then  one  minus  Alpha  x  equals  to  u. Yeah.  I  just  writing  down  the  expression. It  may  do  a  bit  complicated, but  if  you  follow, follow the  specification  given  in  the  problem, this  should  be  straightforward. What  is  gn  and  this  is  just  the  b. It's  also  what  isn  may  this  part just  a  small  part  where  you  need  to realize  that  this  one  minus  Alpha. Okay.  Similarly.  What  else? We  want  the  z  i  equals  to  u. Same,  same  thing  as  before. Now  change  the  d  to  u. Basically  change  the  d  to  u. So  become  u,  right? Because  the  z  becomes  u, then  it  becomes  these other  one  is  the  Beta  one. This  becomes  Beta  equals to  D  and  then  one  minus  Beta  equals  to. Okay.  So  this  will  be  your  conditional, right.  And  then  yeah. Then  to  describe  the  git  sampling, we  just  have  to  write  a  description what  we  do  in  the  git  sampling, right.  So  we  y. So  so  I  I  won't  write  down  in  detail,  right? So  I  initialize  all  the  Z  I,  right? Say  z  one,  z  two, some  initial  starting  point. And  then  at  each  iteration, iteration  k, then  you  are  going  to  first of  all  sample  sorry. Yeah.  So  you  are  going  to  sample the  z  one,  z1k. Basically  from  this  distribution. Yeah.  So  you  sample  from that  distribution.  Sample  from  here. So,  maybe  So  notice  that  this  guy  is. So  this  is  Z  one,  right? So  Z  one  given  all  the  rest,  right? So  then  this  one  is  I  think  okay. For  equals  to  one, then  we  take  i  minus one  to  be  n.  So  it's  wrapped  around. So  there's  a  wrapping  around. Basically,  we  are  going  to look  at  the  case  z  one, z  two,  two  n, and  then  we  wrap  it  back  one. So  the  minus  one  for  z  one, z  minus  one  is  considered  to  be  c  n.  Okay. So  I  only  depends  on  z  two. We  take  the  previous  estimate  previous sample  from  the  previous  iter  ism and  then  the  z  n, which  is  the  whats  that consider  the  i  minus  one,  and  then  the  x. This  one  already  this  is exactly  specified  by  this  guy  over  here. The  z  minus,  this  one, it  only  depends  on  only  depends on  z  i  minus  one  and  z  plus  one. So  then  we  sample  the  z  one, z  two,  sorry  z2k. So  now  we  sample  the  z2k. But  now  this  is  z  one.  But  now we  must  use  the  k  one,  not  the  k  minus  one. And  then  the  z  three  would still  be  k  minus  one. Then  sample  the  z  three,  k  four. Three.  So  z  two  would  be k  z  four  would  be  k  minus  one. Okay.  And  finally,  sample  the  z  n  k,  k. N. So  z  n  minus  one  is  k.  Of  course, the  z  n  plus  one  is  contured  to  be  z  one, z  one  is  also  k  that  we  have  already  sample. Then  of  course  we  will  do  some  bonding to  some  of  the  initial  sample. This  is  your  git  sampling. Yeah.  So  the  question asks  you  to  outline  the  step  you basically  have  to  write down  all  these  things. In  particular,  the  whole  point  about git  sampling  is  to  basically  be able  to  specify  all the  conditional  distribution. You  should  write  this  down  carefully. Make  sure  this  whether  it's  k  or  k  minus  one. You  need  to  make  sure that  you  get  it  correctly. Okay. A  question? Okay.  Then  this  question  is  more like  explanation,  equation,  right? What  is  bing  bing  basic We  run  the  mac  chain  for  a  certain  period, all  these  samples  because  we  want  to wait  until  the  macro  chain  has  converted to  the  distribution, your  target  distribution. Then  the  ding  is basically  throw  away the  some  intermediate  samples. You  take  every  sample  from  the  buns  strain. This  allows  us  to basically  reduce the  core  redation  between  the  samples. Especially  in  the  case  where  you want  approximately  independent  samples, then  you  need  to  do. And  the  dining  can  also  help to  rectify  the  case where  your  vary  the  male is  chosen  to  be  too  large. Then  your  mac  may  be starck  for  a  long  time  at  a  certain  point. Then  you  can  use  dining  to basically  show  where  those  samples. Okay.  So  that's  the  y, so  more  conceptual  question. Anyway,  possible  solution,  I  mean, explanation  is  given  here. So  we  can  see  that  actually  the  requirement is  you  just  have  to write  a  few  sentences  to  explain. Don't  waste  your  time to  write  one  whole  paragraph,  right? On  whole  page.  We  are  not  expecting  that. Just  a  few  brief  sentences  to  explain. Okay.  Any  things  here. Okay. Then  let's  move  on to  this  is  a  different  year. A  Y  23. A  23. Yeah.  So  again  very  small. Okay.  So  in  this  problem, we  have  a  we have  we  are  doing  some  experiments,  right? So  we  have  a  We  have  a  emitter. So  you  have  some  emitter. So  is  emitting  some what's  that  i  signal,  right? And  the  i  signal  when  it  hits, for  example,  building,  right, you  will  get  reflected, and  then  you  will  reach  some  receiver. So  this  is  your  receiver. We  don't  get  the  direct  path is  because  there's  some  obstacle  here, some  obstacle  preventing  the  signal from  reaching  the  receiver  directly. This  is  called  a  long  line  of  side  path, long  line  of  side  path. Okay.  So  clearly,  you  can  see  that the  line  of  side  path  is going  to  be  shorter  than the  norm  line  of  side  path, because  you  have  a  reflection before  you  reach  the  receiver. This  is  going  to  be  longer than  the  direct  down  of  side  path. The  length  of  the  non of  side  path  can  be  modeled  as r  equals  to  D  p  D  is  the  line  of  sight. R  is  the  line  of  side, then  we  think  of  it  as the  nom  of  side  is  basically  the  line  of sight  plus  something  else  some  error. Now  the  question  is  this  Brad, thinks  that  a  better  model  for this  epsilon  is  the exponential  distribution  instead  of  gausin. Why  is  that?  Because  you can  see  that  the  non  side, this  R  is  going  to  be  bigger than  bigger  equals  to  the  line  of  side. This  will  always  be  t.  That means  your  epsilon  must  be  negative. If  I  use  a  gaussian  distribution to  model  this  epsilon, you  know  that  the  gaussian  is  going  from a  subpot  going  from minus  infinity  to  infinity. It's  possible  that  your epsilon  can  become  negative, which  is  not  physically  possible. When  we  choose  a  distribution to  model  and  application, we  need  to  choose  carefully, make  sure  that  we  we choose  something  that's  reasonable. Since  this  episode  is  non  negative, then  the  proposal  is to  model  it  as  an  exponentie. Because  we  know  exponential  is  non negative  with  some  parameter  lambda. We  don't  want  to  use  gaussian, instead  we  use  exponential. Okay.  Now  we  have  some  experiments. So  we  have  some  experiments  over  here, recording  the  R  and  the  D.  So  here, then  you  can  see  that  from  these  experiments, we  can  R  D, so  then  you  can  compute  your  aslo. R  is.  3.4.  3.43  0.0. As  is  0.4,  right. Actually,  this  data  is  actually  telling  you the  Epson  value,  2.82  0.5. Epson  will  be  0.3. So  son  is  r  minus  d. 4.5.  4.3,  0.22 0.42  0.30  0.1. In  fact,  you  actually  have  the  absent  values. Basically,  we  want  to  use to  estimate  the  MLE  of  lambda. So  S  we  have  the  abs  values, we  are  assuming  the  abs is  coming  from  exponential, so  we  can  compute  theho The  likelihood  will  be  the  log. There  are  four  lot  of  epsilon  one, epsilon  two  l  two. Epsilon  three,  epsilon  four. There  are  four  values  given  Lambda. This  one  will  be  is the  sum  from  i  equals  one  to  four, lot  of  Lambda  E  minus  Lambda,  epsilon. This  is  your  exponential  PDF. Okay.  So  you  have four  Lambda  minus  Lambda  submission. Okay.  So  to  find  the  ML  E, we  differentiate  with  respect  to Lambda  four  over  Lambda. Set  20.  So  your  Lambda  will  be  four  over  this m.  And  what  is  this  um? This  is  exactly  the  0.4 plus  0.3  plus  0.2  plus  0.1. This  is  your  MLE  estimate  of  Lambda. If  you're  going  to  work  out,  this  will be  4.7. Yeah.  Sorry. So  next  would  be  the  MAP. Now  I  have  a  pyro  distribution. So  I  assume  the  pyro  right Pirro  is  P  Lambda  is. That  proportional  to  this  guy. So  I  want  to  find  the  MAP  estimate. Same  thing,  right. So  we  just  take the  locked  Lho  locked  likelihood. So  we  have  four  Lambda  minus. Plus  the  lot  of  the  pirate. This  is  a  proportion. That  means  there's  some  constant, but  we  don't  care. The  constant  doesn't  contain  any  lambda. So  we  plus  some  constant. After  you  differentiate, it  will  go  away  anyway. This  will  be  lambda  minus lambda  of  one.  Okay. So  then,  same  thing, differential  of  respect  to  Lambda. Set  20,  then  Lambda  will be  will  be  five  over  this. The  sum  of  the  epsilon  is happened  to  be  exactly  11  plus  one. 15/4. Okay.  So  that's the  MAP.  Okay. Now  we  observe  only  R  without measuring  D.  Remember  your  R equals  to  D  plus  eso. We  actually  don't  see  the  D.  Previously, you  see  the  D.  Previously, you  can  find  the  MLE  very  nicely  because  you actually  see  both  R  and D.  The  data  you  observe  is  actually  R  and  D, and  this  allows  you  to  compute  the  eso. But  now  you  only  see  R. Now  you  on  only  observe.  R. You  can  think  of  this  as.  Actually,  this is  so  called  incomplete  data. You  don't  have  the  full  picture. This  are  incomplete,  whereas this  guy  have  both  R  and  D,  right? This  is  your  complete  data. Complete  data. Here  you  are  missing  some  parts. You  only  observe  R. So  we  want  to  use  the  EM  algorithm. Remember  your  EM  algorithm allows  you  to  estimate the  MLE  in  the  case where  you  have  incomplete  data. So  the  complete  data,  we  can treat  it  as  R  and  D,  Was  here, the  actual  observed  data  is  only  r. So  then  we  question ask  you  to  describe  what  is being  computed  in  the  E  step. You  don't  actually  have  to  write down  complicated  expressions. You  just  have  to  describe  right. So  basically, We  just  say  that  we  will compute  the  whats that  the  conditional  expectation. So  in  your  e  step,  right,  e  step, we  are  trying  to  find  the basically  the  the  conditional. So  you  can  just  write  the  words  conditional. Expectation,  right  conditional  expectation of  this  lot  of  the  complete  data, which  is  R  and  D,  given  Lambda, Lambda  is  your  parameter. The  conditional  expectation, right  the  expectation  is  with respect  to  some  conditional  probability, right. So  is  the  probability  of  R  and  D, given  the  previous  so  this  is the  right  the  iteration. So  we'll  use  the  previous  one, the  n  minus  one  estimate  right  of  the  ambu. Condition.  Okay.  Of  course, what  we  observe  is  right. So  actually,  this  guy,  I  mean,  Yeah. Part  of  it  is  observed,  right. So  these  conditions  are so  we  can  remove  that. So  given. Our  basically  we  can take  out  the  probability  of R  but  probability  of r  conditional  r  minus  one. Then  of  course, this  one  is  always  equals  to  one. So  this  one  can  go  away. This  is  your  condition  PD. Yeah.  To  describe  in  this  way. I  think  that's  all. Of  course,  you  should  be able  to  find  the  previous  I  don't  know, three  to  five  years  of  the  past  year  ex  qu. So  there  are  quite a  number  of  other  questions. Yeah. But  somehow  somebody  was  telling  me  that he  cannot  find  in  the  library  website. I  so  I  need  to. By  right,  you  should  be  able  to  find at  least  the  last  three  years at  paper  que  on  the  NTU  library  website. So  I'll  go  back  and  check  what's  happening. Okay.  Any  questions? Sorry.  Okay. Then  that's  all  for the  first  half  of  this  course  and  of  course, I  mean,  you  are  always  welcome  to  e  mail  me. If  you  have  any  questions for  your  final  exam. You  final  exam  will  cover everything  including  the  sampling  part, right. So  don't  forget  the  sampling. Although  the  Q  we  did  today doesn't  cover  anything  on  the  sampling. But  your  final  exam  will  cover  everything. And  that's  it. Yeah,  so  I  wish  everybody a  good  break,  right  next, is  a  recess  break, and  then  I  hope  to  see  everyone around  again  on  campus. And  of  course  at  the  final  came.  Yeah. Thank  you. Thank  you.
