One.  Can  all  of  you  hear  me? No  problem,  right?  This  is corresponding  to  the  recording. If  you  cannot  hear, then  the  recording  should  be maybe  very  low  volume. All  right.  This  lecture  will be  focused  on  analytic  regression. Basically,  the  learning  is  for  regression. But  after  we  go through  a  thresholding  process, then  it  can  become  classification. So  we  only  talk  about  learning first  in  this  and  then later  we  can  just  thresh  or we  apply  some  technique like  winners  for  classification. Mainly  is  focused  on  learning. So  the  learning  partition to  two  parts  lecture  five  and  six. Lecture  five  for  regression. That  means  the  original  goal of  learning  is  for  regression. Then  it  is  used  for  clsation  later. The  goal  and  application may  be  slightly  different. But  the  second  part  is  next  next  week, directly,  we  optimize  the  goal  of  clasation. So  basically,  it  so  be  one  s  instead  of  two s.  So  we  can  see  the  difference  later. For  the  first  part  here, the  sum  square  error Som  square  error  minimization for  over  and  underdetermined  system, you  have  seen  before  in  lecture  three, and  you  will  be  tested  in  this  systems  today. The  basic  one.  But  then  in  today's, we  extend  this  further for  applications  in  learning. How  do  we  learn? And  essentially, even  though  it's  application  on  the  model, the  concept  is  almost the  same  as  lecture  three. Actually  today  lecture, even  though  there  are  a  lot  of  slides, but  main  content  come  from lecture  for  regression  based  darning. And  Primal  reach  is  we  are  basically  adding one  item  primal  and  dual  reach, is  we  are  trying  to  do  some  regularization. So  regularization  is  to  suppress the  size  of  the  parameter  when  doing. So  as  we  know,  the  size of  parameter,  it  be  too  big. So  these  parameters  or coefficients  are  multiplied  to your  model  in  your  model. When  you  multiply  to  data, it  can  swing  a  lot if  if  the  size  of  parameters  are  big. So  there's  a  rationale  behind the  regularization  and  the  coin the  term  risk  regression. En  flier  and  do  are basically  the  same  as over  and  underdetermined  system. Okay.  I  just  introduce  the  terms  so that  when  you  come  across these  terms  again  in  literature, you  know,  they  are  quite quite  they  mean  a  similar  thing,  right? Then  next,  we  move  on  to  the  nel  regression, the  original  corner  and  nel  reach. Nel  basically  is  view  from  the  dual  view. Basically,  everything  come  from  these  two, or  everything  comes  from  lecture  three. Just  enjoy  this  lecture because  you  have  lecture  t  in  mind, which  we  have  already studied  for  today's  quiz, and  I  think  try  to  apply to  what  we  have  in  the  models. Final  step  is  if  we  want  to  apply for  cication  instead  of  regression, then  we  need  to  add  the  final  step. That  is  to  cut  the  data  above  or  below. Above  is  one  clus  below  is  another  cl or  some  other  decision. So  just  a  short  introduction. The  main  goal  of  learning  is  to  make  use of  available  training  samples to  form  an  inference  engine  for  prediction. So  why  we  want  to  learn, because  we  want  to  predict. And  to  predict  is  to  predict  new  data. Of  course,  we  can  predict old  data  that  you  learned, but  that  is  not really  prediction  you  already  learned  that. That  is  memory.  All  right. So  predict  mainly, the  purpose  is  to  predict  new  data. So  if  we  can  predict  new  data, Many  things  are  easier because  we  can  prep,  we  can  know  the  trend, so  we  can  we  can  act before  before  the  data  comes,  right? And  then  we  are  more  ready for  for  the  results. In  general,  those  learning score  functions  in  the  lecture four  can  be  adopted to  form  the  cost  of  criterion  function. For  re  predictor  learning. We  call  it  predictor. If  it's  used  for  in  a  general  sense, regression  can  be  classification. But  we  call  it  a  classifier, then  it's  specific  to  classification. Predictor  is  more  general. So  it's  something  to  predict regression  classification. That  is  the  term  used. We  will  focus  on  analytic  learning. That  means  we  have  a  closed  bond  solution. The  solution  is  you  can  write  the  expression. You  don't  have  to  go  through  search. You  only  search  one  step and  you  get  the  solution. Basically,  in  a  nutshell, The  cost  function  may  be  different  shape, but  in  this  ate, we  formulate  into  something like  quadratic  shape, and  you  have  only  1.1  solution, and  you  get  that  solution. So  that's  the  main  concept  in  the  nutshell. And  this  model  can  infer  for other  nominal  model  because we  also  can  embed  our  data, embed  the  data  by  point  nominal  by  nel so  that  the  actual  input  output can  be  nomineal. But  the  relationship  between the  parameter  and  your  input, they  are  still  denial. Okay.  That  means  you  see  a  linear  set of  parameters  to  estimate. Okay.  So  you  don't  you  still can  solve  non linear  input  output  relationship. Without  saving,  no. Non  nearly  means  you  have  to search  from  some  way.  You  have  to  search. Either  you  get  this  or  you  keep  searching. You  may  get  next  one.  That's  cumbersome. We  try  to  formulate  in  this  way. Pin  one  way,  el  another  way that  we  seen  in  lecture  three.  All  right. Now.  Now  we  want  to  give  you  some  examples. First,  we  consider  Suppose we  learn  the  two  class,  two  category  problem. The  output,  the  output  only  has  two  value. The  y  only  has  two  value. You  can  label  them  as 01  or  minus  one  plus  one. You  learn  one  output,  but this  one  output  has  two  values. And  that  is  a  kind  of  class  learning, but  we  can  use  regression  to learn  this  output  also.  Okay. And  as  usual,  we  denote  the  samples. This  indexing  of  I  from  one  to  M, M  is  indicating  the  training  set. When  we  use  n  the  n  is  test n.  But  n  and  n  are  not  universal  notations. So  when  you  read  papers, you  read  what  they  define. Right?  The  may  use K  e  j  or  or  number  Alphabet. This  is  a  target  label. This  is  what  the target  goal  you  want  to  learn. And  a  predictor  G, G  is  a  model. This  model  it  learns  something, we  just  generally  call  it  predictor. W  G  used  for  classification, then  later  G  become  classifier. After  the  tres  showing. Now  we  are  interested  in learning  just  G  first. Learning  G  by  learning  the  parameter. And  then  these  parameters. Usually  in  our  notes, we  denote  as  weak. As  we  said  before, we  add  some  head  means  is  a  point. D  is  a  point  now  after  learning. After  learning,  after  you  put  data  in, these  are  settled  down  to  one  point. Okay.  So  that  one  point is  the  solution  that  you  want  to  get. And  also,  we  have a  threshold  you  need  to  set. The  threshold  can  move,  but  then  you can  set  at  some  value  a  point. Okay.  So  this  is  basically notation  in  the  lectures and  also  in  the  book. An  ideal  classifier  is  such  that  after treasuring  your  learning  outcome by  a  certain  tres  cow. The  classified  result either  zero  or  one  matches  that  of  y. Y  is  also  zero  or  one. That  means  if  y  is  zero, your  outcome  up  the  threshold should  be  also  zero, classified  as  zero,  below  certain  value. Above,  it  may  classify  as  one. So  if  your  target  is  Y  is  one. That  means  the  target  and what  you  learn  up  the  threshold  s. For  regression,  you  don't need  to  be  the  same. For  regression,  you  are  trying  to get  a  close  at  zero  and  one  value. So  it  can  be  0.1,  0.01. Very  close.  You  don't  have to  threshold  for  regression  application. So  you  have  seen this  equation  many  times also  or  several  times. So  basically, this  cost  function  is called  sum  of  square  error. We  use  this  short  notation, some  SSD,  sum  of  square  errors. And  we  do  not  need  to  add  the  averaging  here. We  don't  ne  to  add  this  averaging  here. That  averaging  is  usually got  mean  square  error. Right  with  or  without, your  optimization  result  is  the  same. You'll  get  the  same  to  value,  okay. So  this  is  a  cost  function. We  usually  set  for  regression. First.  If  you  want  to  use  it  for clasicion  later  after  learning using  this  cost  function, then  you  do  a  threshold. We'll  talk  about  thresholding  process at  the  end  of  this  slide. Maybe  today  or  maybe  if  not  enough  time, we  go  to  we  can  bring  forward  to  next  week. Now,  the  linearity  is chime  and  the  feature  vectors. P  is  a  feature  vector. P  is  a  transformed  feature  vector because  original  feature  is x  and  you  transform x  into  a  nonar  P  point  nominal, for  example,  and  then  they  become  an  space. I  transform  on  this  new  space  so that  you  can  keep the  linearity  with  the  parameter, but  no  more  linearity  with  input. You  can  you  can  actually  learn  none  re  input. So  Dinnar  model  means the  model  has  linear  parameter. The  parameters  are  directly multiplied  by  the  feature  transform  features. Because  this  is  a  linear  relationship, just  a  direct  weight  between  the  S&P, y  elements  multiply  and  sum  together, and  it  can  be  estimated  in  analytic  way. And  you  see  the  p  vector, the  transform  vector, we  want  to  add  the  upset  by  default. But  in  some  quiz  or  exam, it  depends  on  the  situation. We  may  not  want  you  to  have  two  big  matrix, so  we  may  omit  the question  will  tell  you  exactly, whether  with  or  without  this  offset. It  depends  on  the  setting. It  may  change  the  dimension  of  this  matrix. So  adding  this  one  column. But  in  applications,  yourself, if  you  use  by  outside,  right, it's  best  to  add  the  upset  it's  best  to  add this  one  always  so that  you  allow  a  model  to  book. All  right.  So  without  upset, is  only  for  class  working  out. And  all  these  data,  the  number  of  data, the  number  of  targets,  one  to. We  can  pack  the  y  into  a  vector. We  can  pack  the  features into  projected  or  transformed  features and  the  dimension  change. Oiginal  was  D.  Both  x. Then  it  transform  to  P  of  P  of  x. And  this  is  basically  big D.  So  a  small  change  here. But  everything  else,  the  working out  should  be  very  similar  to  lecture. We  just  change  the  x  into  p.  So you  have  more  freedom  in  the  feature  space. X  is  transformed  into  some non  near  combinations  of x.  For  example,  four  point. You  can  also  put  the  nonar  function  on sine  for  sine  or  whatever  exponential. This  is  just  a  general  model. And  your  parameter  vector, including  the  intersect, zero  corresponding  to  the intersect  or  bias  term, and  then  the  rest  of  the  parameters. In  fact  in  this  way, the  cost  function  can  be written  in  either  this  way or  this  way,  they  are  equal. Basically,  basically  the  cost  function is  basically  also  equal  to  some of  all  these  y  minus  p  the  square. All  sum  together. Now  you  will  go  the  matric  form. This  vector  multiple  and this  vector  is  a  sum. I  correspond  this  multiple  together  give  you the  sum  of  all  these  items. This  the  compact  representation  so  that  we can  use  metric  and  vector those  methemat  to  do  the  computation  easily. In  writing  is  much  easier. Otherwise,  you  have  to  write a  lot  of  sum  in  computation. After  having  that  cost  function, so  basically,  we  need to  optimize  the  cost  function. And  this  cost  function  in  high  dimension, in  D  dimension  now  or  d  plus one  dimension,  it's  still  quartic. In  one  dimension,  it  looks  like  this. But  in  high  dimension, in  two  D,  it  becomes  a  inverted  bell. A  inverted  cup  or  something. I  more  high  dimension,  we  cannot  draw. T  d,  maybe  di  a  circle, and  four  d,  there's  no  way  to  draw. It  is  a  poetic  manner  because  of  the  square. And  the  retic  manner  retic  formulation has  a  unique  solution, and  we  are  going  to find  this  unique  solution. The  solution  corresponding  to the  value  of  the. So  this  ad  you  want  to  find. This  is  one  D,  but  in  high  D, you  have  123  in  that  space. The  main  job  of  optimization in  most  common  case in  calculus  that  you've  learned, even  in  middle  school  high  school, so  you  need  to  differentiate the  objective  function. Differentiate. In  maybe  if  you, you  want  to  find  this,  any  function, but  you  need  to  differentiate. This  is  F.  So  you  differentiate  in  one  D, you  learned  this  earlier,  right? Before  you  come  to  the  George  School. And  in  Higher  dimensional  space, we  do  the  same. But  the  differentiation is  in  every  dimension. It  becomes  a  partial  differentiation. I  mean,  you  have  to  differentiate  with respect  to  each  of  the  dimension. You  have  to  for  example, if  you  have  a  function  with  x 1x2x3  to  x  m  of  x  d, then  you  di  the  whole  function  respect to  each  of  these  x  one  to  x  d.  Okay. And  then  you  form  a  vector. Each  detive  a  form  a  vector  form  a  value. And  then  this  values  form  a  vector. So  that  this  accumulated  derivative, vector  is  also  known  as  gradient, but  it's  high  dimensional it's  no  longer  one  dimensional  gradient, it's  high  dimensional  gradient. In  high  dimension  gradient,  the  derivative. We  can  use  this  notation of  inverted  triangle. If  you  have  studied  those  match  before. We  are  differentiating  retract  to  the  vector. Differentiating  the  cost  function  respect  to each  of  these  312  to  their  d. Big  D  because  you  have  D  number  of  totes. You  form  a  vector. And  this  derivative  equal  to  zero. This  is  the  condition. This  is  a  necessary  condition, but  not  sufficient  to quantify  a  minimum  point. But  it  can  also  be  maximum  point. This  why  is  a  necessary  condition only,  not  sufficient. To  get  sufficiency  to quantify  either  a  minimum  or  maximum, then  we  need  one  more  condition, which  is  a  second  rative. But  we  don't  need  to  do this  in  this  case  because  we already  know  our  objective is  sum  in  the  quive  form, only  one  minimum  point,  no  maximum  point. If  you  form  for  in  the  square  area, sum  of  square  area  all  positive  value. So  the  minimum  is  the  lowest  point. So  we  only  need the  necessary  condition  plus the  knowledge  that  is  aretic. This  is  a  second  condition, and  then  we  know  we  are  solving this  minimum  point.  Okay. Putting  the  equal  to  zero  means  we  want to  quantify  the  point  must satisfy  gradient  equal  to  zero. Only  this  point  in this  satisfy  gradient  equal  to  zero. The  gradient  of  j.  This  is similar  to  what  we  learned earlier  in  high  school, that  you  want  to  find  minimum  maximum  point, your  gradient  must  be  equal  to  zero. Then  minimum  maximum  can  be local  minimum  global  minimum, but  in  our  case,  the  otic  formulation only  has  one  global  minimum. That  atic  knowledge  is  a  second  condition. If  you  don't  have  this  quartic  knowledge, then  you  have  to  use  second  rative  and  so  on. You  also  n  this  before,  right? After  differentiating  the  cost  function, which  is  differentiate  this  function, and  put  to  zero. I  think  you  also  need  to  know  a  little  bit about  Pin  has  introduced some  basic  match  in the  second  lecture  to  supplementary. So  go  back  and  check about  those  basic  operations. By  putting  t  directly  we  go  to  zero. For  example, if  you  differentiate  this  expression. Basically,  you  have  have  two  parts  here, left  and  right  part,  and both  part  contains  the  deal,  the  variable. This  is  a  22  part  by  part. You  hold  one  part and  you  demonstrate  one  part. And  you  hold  the  other  part and  differentiate  the  other  part. Left  and  right  terms  here, you  differentiate  separately, because  they  are  symmetrical, they  are  same,  basically, it  is  two  times  I is  two  times  the  deity  of  one  of  them, one  side  of  them,  right? This  is  what  you  get  after  dt. This  is  this  side,  and  then  zero  is  this. The  remaining  job  is  to  solve  this  equation. And  this  equation  is  also known  as  Normal  equation. Normal  means  perpendict,  normal, is  normal  to  this  surface, normal  normal  equation. Why  is  this  normal?  When  you  have two  vectors  in  the  product between  two  vectors  equal  to  zero, Then  these  two  vectors  are  perpendicular. There  is  the  equation.  There  is  a  condition. So  each  of  the  vectors  inside  P  is perpendicular  to  this  a  vector, each  of  this  a  vector  for  every  data. Must  be  perpendicular. That  is  a  shortest  distance, or  minimum  a  lowest  point. If  you  have  an  over  determined  systems, and  usually  the  covalence  of this  P  transpose  P  is  non  single  Usually. If  you  have  a  lot  of  data, a  tall  matrix  of  P, a  lot  of  data,  and  small  number  of  D. The  horizontal  columns  of  one  to  d  zero  to  d, tic  one  to  n.  M  is  the  size  of  data. We  try  to  organize  in  this  way. Sound  books  do  the  other  way, but  we  start  off  p  in this  way,  default,  all  right? And  by  manipulating,  because the  covalence  is  non  singular, then  you  actually  can  pre  multiply. Let  me  get  rid  of  this  first. So  minus  sign  is  not  important. We  can  remove  because  minus  o  both  side, the  ero  doesn't  really  affect. So  you  can  just  use  a  positive  sign. And  scaling  two  also  doesn't  really  affect. So  you  don't  need  to  consider  that  scaling. To  solve  this  in  metric,  basically, you  need  to  multiply. So  you  multiply  each  of  these  items  and  then move  the  So  what  you get  is  Pty  minus  p  t  p plus  minus  P  t p  equal  to  zero. Then  you  move  one  term  over  the  other  side. Eventually,  you  get  pt  y  equal  to  Pt. Similar  to  lecture  three. What  you  need  to  do  is  multiply  by  inverse. On  both  side. We  multiply  on  the  left  side. Then  this  inverse  will  cancel  out, you  get  identity  matrix. Identity  matrix  multiplied  by  t,  still. Then  you  get  this  solution, which  is  the  solution. This  become  one  point. After  fitting  the  data  and  P, the  tu  is  a  fixed  point. Before  fitting  data  into  this, you  still  don't  know  where  what  is  the  deal. We  don't  use  a  head.  You  don't  know. But  after  fitting  everything  on  one  side, on  the  right  side,  you  become  fixed  point. So  we  indicate  that  point. You  can  use  head,  you  can  use  a  star, you  can  use  a  whatever to  indicate  that  point. This  is  a  solution  point. And  this  is  basically  the same  as  you  remember in  Lecture  three,  you  have  sorry. You  have  x  x  inverse.  You  have  this  one. For  system  or  nena  equations, we  go  back  to  tru  three again  using  this  model  with  Data and  with  P.  E  three. Okay.  So  5%  is basically  what  you  learned  before. But  it  was  derived derived  from  here  from  here. And  then  to  here  and  then  to  here. You  can  see  if you  learn  the  model  by  minimizing the  error  between  the  data and  your  model  square  error  square. Minimizing  that,  you  get  the  same  as you  learn  in  the  lecture, overdetermined  systems,  basically. There  are  two  roots  to arrive  at  the  solution. The  rest  are  just  application of  if  you  want  to  predict  training  data, then  you  use  the  training  matrix  P multiplied  by  the  learn  model. You  get  a  predict  train prediction  training  data  prediction. If  you  have  test  data, then  you  generate  P  using  the  test  data, the  transformation, same  transformation  and  training, and  you  multiply  by the  training  the  train  parameters, then  you  get  the  test test  test  data  prediion. So  in  application, we  usually  split  the  data into  the  training  set  and  test  set. Then  training  set  just  use the  training  set  to  form  P, and  use  it  to  learn  the  and  you  get  a. And  then  for  the  test  data, you  also  generate  the  test. We  call  it  P.  Test, P,  and  then  you multiply  by  the  train  parameter. You  get  the  test. And  this  is  basically  a  regression learning  because  g  is  just  a  predictor. You  are  learning  the  regression  outward  only. It  has  values  other  than  zero  and  one. Yes,  I  0.01  -0.011  point  something  on  0.9. After  you  do  threshold, then  you  cut  it  to  zero  and  one. This  rainbow  will  be  you'll see  over  and  over  again. So  I  will  pause  I  will  make my  lecture  spit  slower in  those  important  points. So  I  think  you're  familiar. I  think  we  can  go  faster. And  hopefully  we  can  cover  the  entire  set of  this  lecture  notes  in  this  today. Next  thing.  We  want  to  extend the  single  target  of  two  categories. Y  is  single  column  of  target  values, and  y  consists  of  one  or  zero only  in  a  vector,  one  or  zero. We  can  extend  to  multiple  classes, 01  represent  two  class. But  we  can  learn  multiple  columns  of  Y. Each  columns  of  y  represent  one  class. Then  we  also  can do  the  same  learning  process. So  before  we  tell how  do  we  form  the  target  y, we  don't  form  zero,  one,  two,  three, bosoms  numbers  because  we  know  that different  values  will  impact the  learning  because  higher  y  values multiplied  inside  will  affect larger  than  a  smaller  y  values. When  you  multiply  inside the  model  during  the  learning  process. All  right.  We  want  to  be  fair. So  we  have  this  one  hot  coding. Before  going  into  that,  we just  assume  you  know  this  target  y, and  you  have  multiple columns  of  target  to  learn. Your  model  becomes multiple  columns  of  parameters. If  you  have  C  classes, then  you  have  C  columns  of. Each,  each  vector,  learn  one  set  of  output. Then  second  column,  learn the  second  second  output. The  Y  the  Y are  also  packed  into  different  columns. In  this  illustration  here, you  don't  need  to  ready order  your  data  into  this  set. You  don't  need  to  it  can  be mixed  in  terms  of  the  role. But  column  wise,  you  can  see  that there's  only  a  single one  in  the  columns and  the  rest  of  column  zero. This  is  to  label  class  one. For  those  with  the  second  digit, Second  column  one,  the  rest  zero, the  rest  of  columns, including  the  first  column, you  call  class  two. Because  it's  a  second  column  D  zero. The  last  one,  it  can  be  class  C. This  is  so  called  one  hot  notation for  the  learning  target  we. Each  data  comes,  I  is  class  one, you  put  one  and  the  zero. If  the  class  two  data  comes, then  you  put  01d0. If  it's  the  third class  third  category  data  came, then  you  put  001, d  zero  for  y. Every  output  has  multiple  columns  output. Every  one  has  columns, and  row  wise  is  samples  one  to  n. Column  wise  is  number  of  classes. When  you  put  your  y  in this  manner  and  put  them into  you  don't  need  to  group  them  into  Y  one, every  rule  correspond  to every  rule  of  x  values. We  do.  You  don't  need  to  block  the  x, block  the  Y.  You  don't  need  to. You  just  put  corresponding this  row  of  x  correspond  to  this  role  of. That's  all.  For  example, this  role  of  Y  correspond to  this  role  of  data. So  this  is  c  one. Okay.  So  this  is  class  one. The  next  role  maybe suppose  it  came  from  class  two. Then  over  here,  you  put  01000  next  role. You  just  need  the  corresponding  x  and  y  rules in  terms  of  samples. The  rules  are  sample  number. The  column  is  a  indicator for  indicator  of  class. And  this  indication  is called  one  hot  encoding. I  think  you  have  also  seen  this  in  e  two. And  typically  is  used  to  indicate or  label  the  output  y  class. If  you  use  this  label, we  still  can  we still  can  formulate  a  linear  model. We  remember  previously  it  was small  G  and  big  P  and  both. G  also  previous  model. Small  G,  small. Now  you  have  V  G  means you  have  multiple  columns  of  G, put  in  the  V  G.  Multiple columns  of  put  in  the V.  W  and  G  are  now  matrices. Now  there  are  multiple  columns  of  G. These  of  these  are  columns. And  y  also  have multiple  columns  in  this  form. With  that  packing, we  we  can  formulate the  least  square  error  in  this  form. So  minus  g,  big  y  mi  g, big  y  minus  g  squared. Because  this  is  matrix  multiplied  by  matrix, the  end  result  is  a  matrix. It's  not  a  number. Just  not  it  was  a  vector  multiplied by  vector  in  the  product, is  a  scalar  value. But  now  there  is  a  matrix  of  value. We  cannot  do  optimization  easily  of  matrix. Of  course,  there  are  some  ways  to  that, but  we  don't  want  to  complicate  ourselves. The  easiest  is  to  use  a  trace  of  this  matrix. So  this  one  become  a  matrix. So  we  are  getting  the  trace  of  a  matrix. Okay.  Matrix  is  with  certain  elements. The  trace  trace  is  very  useful. Trace  is  corresponding  to the  sum  of  the  diagonal  item. And  this  sum  up,  it becomes  still  a  single  value. Trace  of  matrix  has some  indication  of  the  value  of  matrix. Value  of  metric,  there's  no  one  single  value. But  trace  is  summarizing  it  into  one  value. They  are  not  equal,  but  then  it  represents I  just  like  average  value. Average  of  your  maybe  pocket  money. So  average  is  one  value. But  everyone  has  different  size, different  values  in  your  pocket  money. So  the  main  value  is one  representation  of  the  distribution. So  this  trace  has  that  kind  of  indication. So  to  minimize  this  trace, you  minimize  some  means  you  minimize  a  value, with  respect  to  all  the  ws. This  is  a  bit  complicated, but  then  it's  not  ready as  complicated  when  we  use  case. The  next  few  style  is  basically  to  derive this  y  to  see how  we  can  obtain  the  same  minimum  points, similar  to  the  single  color  case. But  you  need  to  know  a bit  about  this  process. In  case  somebody  asked  you. You  can  ask  AI  next  time, but  I  tell  you  in  advance. So  suppose  we  had a  big  er  matrix  of error  equal  to  one  minus  d. So  the  trace  is  basically  trace  of the  error  multiply  this  error  squared. And  this  error  squared, I  basically  each  of  these  area  is  a  vector. This  E  is  a  vector  here. This  E  is  a  vector  here. No  vector.  Each  E  is  a  column  vector. Each  E  is  a  column  vector. And  this  one  is  a  a  row  vector. So  it's  a  many  rules multiplied  by  many  columns, and  it  forms  a  matrix. And  then  if  you  want  to  calculate every  element,  so  basically, you  calculate every  down  every  element,  everyone. Okay.  And  next  one  also. So  you  have  to  sum  up  everyone. And  because  after  this  multiply, it  becomes  a  matrix, the  trace  correspond  to only  this  diagonal  elements. The  trace  is  basically just  some  of  these  diagonal  element. You  don't  care  about  the  other,  some  of  this, and  this  is  the  indication of  a  of  all  the  system  put  together. Doing  this  is  not  simple  because  you  don't have  to  worry  about the  e  one  multiplied  by  e  two. Put  ether  product  between  e  one  and  e  two, is  just  e  one  and  one  for the  role  or  columns  of  the  e, multiplied  together  in  the  product. No  E  K  e  transpose  K  over  multiplied  by  e  k. So  we  can  solve  this  individually, just  sum  them  together.  Okay. And  this  individual  solution is  what  we  get  just  now, the  single  row  case or  single  color  or  y  case. Each  sub  correspond  to one  correspond  to  one  of  these, and  the  rest  of  the  p  are  the  same. Because  the  feature  metric you  are  using  is  the  same. The  only  difference  is  the  output  different. And  you  can  pack  them  together. You  can  pack  each  of  the  ether and  together  and  you  form  a  big  Y. And  you  form  a  big  tub  here. I  become  very  beautiful  because  it should  refine  our  members. For  multiple  output,  you  just  need to  stack  multiple  into  big. That  means  you're  changing  from  small  to big  and  you're  changing from  small  y  to  big  Y. Small  means  a  vector  y into  multiple  vectors  of  Y. It  becomes  a  matrix. So  it  becomes  very  simple. So  and  very  handy. Coding  is  also  easy. You  can  just  use  those  pythons  or me  lap  that  you  can  pack this  metric  to  do  the  multiplication. Of  course,  inside  Python  and  Map, they  still  need  to  look at  the  columns  and  rows,  right? But  then  doing  our  coding, you  just  write  in  matrix  form  will  do. And  for  clan  and tense  output  is  the  same  thing. So  now  is a  multiple  output  G,  big  G,  and  big. Tens  output  also  same  thing. Big  G  and  ig.  All  right. The  very  first  part,  you learn  very  easily  is  the  same  as  before. And  the  second  the  only  thing you  learn  is  multiple  output, you  are  changing  from  small  to  big  t. Small  Y  to  big  Y, and  nothing  to  remember. You  already  understood  it. The  rest  are  just  examples. Maybe  I  can  skip  this  basically, you  just  put  in  this  number. If  you  have  mat  lab  or  Python, you  can  put  them  in. Spot  two  dimensional  features, X  one  and  X  two,  then  you  have  three  outputs. And  this  output  are included  in  these  features  is  class  one. This  reaches  cls  one  and  so  on. And  this  features  class two  second  column  of  the  y. Then  there  are  some  features,  the  third  cl. So  you  just  break  them  into the  corresponding  x  and  y. Put  into  the  appropriate  columns. These  features  are  class  one, and  each  one  correspond  to  whatever. Then  these  features  going  to  class  two, and  this  correspond  to  class  three. And  you  don't  need  to  group all  the  st  together. You  can  mix  the  roles, but  the  p  the  must  both  together. P  and  y  role  must  be  synchronized. You  don't  need  to  group  all  the  one  together. Each  sample  must  correspond to  its  own  group  or  y  class. Tuck  in  this,  the  rest  is just  the  method  to  run  the  coding. And  if  the  question  asked  you  to  transform the  features  into polynomials  of  second  order, then  you  just  transform them  using  the  polynomial  formula. In  method,  we  have  to  quote  every  power  term. Be  method,  there's  no  function, but  in  yon  you've  seen  in  the  previous  sure, very  easy  generate  for  features, call  the  python,  and then  it  can  generate  for  you. But  that  is  a  tricky also  because  if  you  want  to  know which  one  is  which  column  you have  to  find  out  where  are  the  position. If  you  code  a  self  which  column  square  term, which  column  creation  to  interacting  terms. They  are  always  pro  and  con. After  you  generate  the  p  by  by coding  or  by  the  routines  or  functions, library  functions  inside  the  python, and  you  get  a  P  matrix  B  with  data. Cform  P  matrix  from  x  to P.  Then  the  rest are  just  barking  in  the  formula,  you  get  the. For.  For  prediction,  for  test  data, you  also  generate  the  P  matrix and  then  multiplied  by the  multiplied  by  this. That's  Matrix  multiplication. Remember,  matrix  multiplication  and anyone  wise  multiplication  are  different. Okay.  And  this  is  ML  code, which  is  quite  straightforward. So  have  a  look  or  you  can  quote  them. In  case  you  don't  have  MAP, nowadays  very  easy. You  don't  have  to  translate  yourself. You  dump  this  into  AI  this  code  into  Paton. A  will  get  you,  I  think a  100%  nowadays  for  this  simple  code. A  few  years  ago,  maybe  90%. Now,  I  think  it's  100%. Try  it  out  and  you enjoy  solving  this  kind  of  problem. This  kind  of  problem  is  scalable. When  your  dimension  get  large, your  P  get  more  transformation, that  means  you  want  to  get  more  power  t terms  and  more  samples, you  can  handle  using  the  sing as  long  as  your  ram  is  big  enough, but  usually  your  ram  is  more  than  enough for  small  problems  like a  few  thousand  data  and  below. Even  10,000,  I  think Eight  or  menu. But  beyond  of  course,  you  need. Sad  about  training  and  te  process. And  that  was  for  over  determined  systems. And  when  we  come come  to  underdetermined  systems, that  happens  if  your  transformation of  P  become  big  D, P  on  to  the  p,  but  the  samples  is  very  small. P  become  the  fat  matrix. Then  it  becomes  under determined  because  you  have D  number  of  parameters, d  plus  one  parameter, and  only  small  number  of  n  or  equations. You  don't  have  enough  equation, but  then  we  still  can  solve the  under  determined  system in  the  least  non  way. That  has  been  explained  in  at  three. So  over  here,  we  introduce another  route  to  solve the  under  data  line  way,  all  right. So  the  concept  is  to  project your  project  your  project  this  parameter. Your  parameter  is  the  parameter is  a  is  this  dimension. You  have  d  plus  one  number  of  parameters. Then  you  can  project  into the  space  of  the  data  space. So  suppose  your  P  is  one  to  m,  is  p, and  one  to  big  d or  zero  to  big  d01  to  big  d.  So  you have  d  plus  one  dimension,  which  is  a. Then  You  are  converting the  larger  dimension  d, this  is  d  plus  one  into a  smaller  dimension  of  M. M  is  a  small  number, this  d  is  big  number. We  are  changing  the  parameter  from  to  Alpha. Alpha  is  smaller  size. When  we  solve  the  Alpha as  a  parameter  instead  of  the  direct. After  solving  Alpha,  we  can  project, multiply  back  to  your  data matrix  P  and  you  get  the. This  is  another  view. But  ultimately,  what  you  get  is the  same  as  what  you  done  in  lecture  three. So  if  you  do  that  projection, that  means  you  replace  the  view by  this  projection. We  are  changing  a  parameter from  top  to  Alpha. To  is  d  some  dimension. Alpha  is  dimension  because  they  are  samples. Alpha  is  related  to  sample  size. The  main  thing  is  there's  nothing  changed, the  equation  still  look almost  the  same  as  before, except  the  change  of  the  variable  Alpha. What  you  need  to  do  is  treat d  as  one  big  block. You  are  getting  similar  equation  as  before. Your  solution  is  still  somewhat similar  despite  despite  replacing  by  Alpha. First,  you  solve  for  Alpha, and  then  you  put  Alpha  into put  Alpha  equal  T  Alpha. You  put  Alpha  into here,  and  then  you  get  a  tu. So  this  is  just  another angle  of  getting  the  same  thing. So  nothing  really  more. If  you  really  cannot  just  at  this  moment, go  back  and  re  read  this  slide, it's  basically  just  to show  you  different  roads, right?  You  get  the  same  thing. And  there  is  another  road. And  that's  why  it  is  called  this no  solution  because  your  goal  become minimizing  of  norm  of the  subject  to  the  this  condition  of a  linear  equation  equal  to g.  After  you  get  the  solution  of  the, qual,  you're  solving  the  smallest  norm  of  the naturally  it  has  the  least  no  value among  all  other  solutions. Under  determined  has  many  solutions, and  every  other  solution has  a  bigger  norm  than this  solutions  nom.  Okay. And  if  you  start  from this  equation  here,  5.26, this  is  called  constraint  optimization, and  constraint  usually we  change  to  unconstrained. This  is  constrained  by adding  a  sc  variable  Alpha. So  this  variable  is  the  one that  replace  the  projection. And  go  minimize  by  taking the  gradient  or  partial  derivative  of this  respect  to  Alpha. Because  this  is  basically  P  alpha. First,  if  you  don't care  about  alpha  at  this  moment, so  divers  with  respect  to  first, you  get  the  D  into  this. This  projection,  especially what  you  used  just  now. With  this,  you  can put  this  back  and  solve  for the  Alpha  and  you  will get  the  solution  as  before. But  now  because  of  this  scaling to,  but  it  will  be  cancel  out. So  after  substituting  this  back, This  Alpha  substitute  into  here, you  get  the  full  solution  of  the  V. All  right.  So  you  can  see from  the  minimizing  of  this  non  view, from  minimizing  the  constraining the  into  a  small  space  of  Alpha  vi, you  get  the  same  solution. Not  to  worry  if  you  really  cannot  comprehend, but  this  is  just  to  show  you  the  root,  right? And  I  think  the  most important  is  know  how  to  apply  them. The  final  solution. So  in  the  middle maybe  not  so  important  for  now, but  it's  good  for  you  big  picture. Okay.  The  main  thing  is  to know  this  and  this, this  and  a  substitution.  Okay. And  same  thing  for  underdetermined, if  you  pack  all  the  multiple  columns of  outputs  into  one and  you  get  multiple  columns  of  the. So  you  get  big  matric  and  big  matric  one. So  it's  still  the  same  as  before. For  over  and  under  determined  systems, the  solutions  are  quite  similar,  right? For  over,  it  was These  two  forms  you  in  many  times  in  S  three. The  only  difference  is replacing  this  letters  from  small  to  big. The  next  is  basically  another  example. And  this  example  is under  Lamic  case  because  you have  small  number  of  samples, and  you  are  going  to  again expand  them  into  a  point  normal, so  which  you  have  more  number  of  features. This  matrix  x  and after  using  the  point  normals, you  get  more  this  is  a  D, and  this  is  one  plus d.  And  this  is  sample  one  to  sample  each  row. Okay.  So  solution  is  still  still  the  same. The  coding  is  the  same except  the  way  you  pack  your  data and  your  solutions  is the  left  inverse  and  right inverse  change  your  name,  right? For  over  and  underdetermined  system. And  then  with  the  training, you  can  predict  the  training data  using  the  training  metric, and  with  the  testing  data, you  predict  the  test  output. And  this  is  a  Python  way to  solve  the  same  thing. All  right.  So  I  believe  it's  straightforward. So  Python,  the  only  thing  is  a bit  different  with  Mt  is  a  matrix. So  matrix  is  brackets  of  rows. Okay.  Big  bracket  of  sub  brackets  of  rows. And  then  I'll  speed  up  a  little  bit  and I  try  to  stop  at  around  740. Then  we  can  5  minutes  break  and then  we  get  back  to  get  ready  for  the  quiz. Rich  quion  is  basically, we  want  to  add  a  penalty  of  this  no  deal. So  that  when  you  minimize  the  era, you  also  minimize  this  nom of  the  deal  together. And  you  can  wait  between  the important  between  between the  two  terms  by  Dan  Da. Landa  is  just  to  whichever  is  more  important, you  put  big  number for  if  this  is  more  important. Small  number,  if  this  is  not  so  important. So  Danda  is  to  control  the  weight. How  important  is  your  to?  No. So  Minimizing  this  term is  the  same  as  usual  as  before, and  we  just  added  this  term. This  is  the  same  as  the  non  term. This  term  is  basically equal  to  d  mathematically  the  equal. The  solution,  if  you go  through  the  same  narrative  of taking  the  gradient  and  you  get a  normal  equation  and  then  you  solve, you  get  the  sub  equal  to  this. Very  similar  to  before, but  we  add  Lambda  I  inside  the  inverse. And  this  also  explain  why  the  adding of  this  regularization  term  makes the  solutions  more  stable  because  you're adding  small identity  matrix  into  the  universe. No  matter  how  as  long  as  you  have a  non  zero  identity  matrix, 0.001,  this  diagonal  wise,  doesn't  matter. The  matrix  because  of  this  term  add  up the  whatever  inside  is  still  non  invertable. It  makes  the  data  conditioning better  or  numerical  condition  better. The  main  point  to take  note  of  reach  is  basically introduced  a  diagonal  term inside  the  inverse  of  the  metric. The  solution  is  basically  the  same  as  before, except  this  diagonal  term so  that  you  make  the  inverse easier  to  compute. Regression  is  also  known as  weight  decay  regularization. Regularization  is a  very  common  word  in  deepening. So  regularization,  basically,  you try  to  make  your  solution  stable, and  basically  is  to  penalize  the  weight, reduce,  make  the  weight  de  smaller. In  practice,  If  you have  a  underdetermined  system, normally, you  use  the  underdetermined  solution will  be  good  enough. You  maybe  don't  need to  use  the  regularization. But  if  your  numerical  values  make the  metrics  very  close  to  singular, then  the  inversion  may  be  difficult, then  you  adding  of this  regularization  number  I. You'll  make  the  situation  improve  a  lot. Okay.  If  your  data  is  underdetermined, you  use  the  overdetermined  system, you  can't  solve  even  if you  add  regularization. So  don't  do  the  other  way. All  right.  And  same  thing. For  risk  regression, regularization  doesn't  change  mask. It's  still  the  same  and  same  as  before, you  have  big  Y  and  big  for over  and  under  determined  system. Basically,  you  add  that  number  I  inside. Okay.  So  for  this  case, is  the  over  determined  system. Because  this  is  a  COVID  PCP.  All  right. I  the  other  way? Okay.  Then  this  is  under  determined. Okay.  And  I  suppose  the  example  becomes  easy. I  basically  park  in  the  numbers  and you  just  apply  the  equation. So  to  train  the  reach  is basically  after  forming  the  P, you  form  the  P  just  now. So  I  didn't  duplicate  that. And  this  is  an  identity  matrix. This  is  Dada  and  this  identity  matrix. Ida  is  called  EI  E.  And  for  prediction, just  you  create  the  P  matrix and  multiply,  it's  the  same. Next  few  slides  is basically  to  show  you  how  to manipulate  from primary  solution  to  dual  solution. So  now,  this  was  in  primary  form. Because  if  you  multiply, you  bring  this  over  multiple  inverse and  this  is  a  solution for  risk  equation,  right? So  basically,  you  move  this  multiply  by this  term  both  side,  you  get  this,  right? So  if  you  do  this  manipulation, and  you  multiply  the  terms  and move  the  similar  terms over  and  do  manipulation. Remember,  you  get  this  manipular  term. So  this  is  a  projection we  did  just  now  to  constrain the  dimension  to  Alpha.  Okay. And  after  if  you  replace Alpha  by  this,  this  is  Alpha. And  this  is  still  the. You  start  from  this  Alpha, you  can  solve  for  Alpha  equal  to  this. Basically,  this  is  what  you  get  just  now. This  is  another  way  to manipulate  and  change  from primary  solutions  to  dual  solution. Okay.  And  don't  worry  about  this  thing. So  but  just  to  let  you  know  there are  such  ways  to  manipulate  from finer  to  do  the  same  between  the  two. So  and  I  will and  the  rest  of the  application  is  basically  the  same. Claiming  and  test  is basically  after  learning  Alpha, then  you  project  onto  PT  Alpha. And  then  you  project  onto  the  training  data, you  get  the  training  result. If  you  project  on  the  test  data, then  you  get  the  test  result. This  is  training  result. Okay.  Test  results  here. Maybe  this  is  a  good  point  to stop  for  a  break  before we  conduct  the  quiz and  not  to  worry  about  remaining, I  will  cover  them  in  the  next  lecture  also. Take  a  break  and  maybe  go  to W  room  because  you'll  be  in  for  15  minutes. So  try  to  make  yourself. Ten. I  solution. The  books  book. So  for  this  question, right  solution  I  give  it  as  a  yes. This  can  be  solved  this  is  3.9. Actually  going  right  this  mat  is not  invert  we  can't  find  solution. This  matrix  is  what's the  size  of  this  me  to  check  the  size. There  are  so  many  data.  44.  Four  data. And  then  in  the  P,  right?  Yeah.  Okay. P  is  how  many  dimensions? Four  to  three.  I  think p  something  at  the  end, you  get  The  column. The  column  four  rows. Let  me  think  I  f  already, but  I  f  already, but  I  actually  going  through  this,  right. After  that  after  I  get a  P  P  transfers  P  this  thing  is  not  equal, the  determinant  is  equal  to  zero. So  to  check,  basically, you  just  check  what's  the  size  of  p. So  if  the  p  is  four  by  34  by  three. It  then  after  transpose is  three  by  24  by  three, by  maybe  you  meant  the  other  way. Okay.  I  go.  Sorry.  I  go to  check  and  then  you  can  revise  the  picture. I  go  to  check  the  picture  Yeah. Okay.  So  get  ready. And  I  think  Professor  L  is. So  I  think  each  of  you  have to  in  charge  of  just  how many  blocks,  eight  blocks. And  you  have  to  mark  the  attendance. Yeah.  But  Py  is  carrying  the  attendant he  will  come  very  soon.  Each  breaks  so. I  think  it's  fortify  here. First.  If  you  need  to  go  out  washroom, do  it  now  we  are  here  for  1  hour. Okay.  Attendance.  For  that  one. Yes.  Yeah,  you  need  to  take. Okay. So  I  need  to  go  to  e  mail. Yeah. Wait,  is  it? Yeah.  Yeah. Quite  many. Is  it  from  previous  week  the  previous  one? Yeah. Correct. Too  many.  Okay. You  know  the  date you  remember the  date  to  early. But  do  you  send  you  didn't  send  to  me. Two  name how  do  we  find I  want  to  display  you  should  be  able. I  from  maybe  change. Any  problem  the  problem  later  to  finish. When  now  we  settle  settle  the  city. Let  me  do  this.  We  need  to do  the  sting  first  copy Photos  bring  a  copy, you  wait stay  back.  Yeah. P  who  didn't  bring  hot  copy  of  your  ID, either  your  national  ID  or  passport  photo. So  you  stay  back  after everything  because  we  have to  verify  you.  Okay. State  the  mobile  phone  during  the  Say. Okay. Also  do  the  sitting  according  to  the  Let  me. So  sorry  the  crest. You  song  one  the  big. To  bring  me  the  wrong  capture  there  a  timeit. Yeah.  Somehow  or could  bring  you  the  wrong  side. Everything. I  think, this  officially,  right? Also,  that's Student. We  need  to  group. So  that  is  easier  for the  infigertor  to  take  a  page. You  see?  Here?  Group  one,  two,  three. You  have  your  name,  starting  from  a  letter  A. A  four  group  one, three,  sector  is  one. Two,  three,  right? You  look  at  your  name  list. To  be  according  to  the  name. So  at  the  end  of  that, we  have  four,  54,  five, six,  one,  two,  three,  four, five,  in  the  second  six  is  here. A  l77  display. Using  another  computer, most  of  the  seven  group, only  a  last  field. Again,  you  look  at  your  name, the  surname,  the  first  letter. Probe  your  mobile  phone. I  send  you  send  you  a  folder. You  s  one,  the  display  group  77ae. You'll  follow  this. It  should  be  clear. So  Ng  the  time  we  stay  at  10  minutes. Yes.  Yes.  Later. So  those  who  do  not  bring  the  art  copy  car. First.  They  will  stay  back. We  check  the  mobile  phone, two,  three,  three,  five. Let  me  a  sit  in  the  middle  six  and  seven. Can  you  group. There  is  the  last  one  you  see  here. We  show  the  the  surname  follow  follow  this. Yes.  The  second  c  one. Certainly  the  b  four,  five,  167. Certainly  a  right  second  y,  yeah.  Yeah. Be  six  and  room.  Five,  six. Yes,  yes.  A  second  one. Yeah.  Try  to. Four.  4567  in the  same  f  one, two,  three,  four,  five,  six,  seven.  Okay. So  at  the  bee the  way  here.  No  way. Okay,  so  your  name,  the  surname. F  the  sname. All  the  student  in  good  to  seven. In  the  same  cluster  one. The  Okay. Yeah.  So  you group  D  three, only  one  or  two,  no  enough. You'll  go  to  group  A. The  group  A  is  the  spare  one. A  in  the  middle  of  the  second,  the  810. F  one,  two,  three,  four,  five, F  is  the  second  second  and  the left  one  pa  ten. Cam  on  you. Taking  my  G  G  eight, only  a  few  students. Mutual.  Right  to. I  will  give  you  six. G  five  second  and  the  back. Yeah.  45,  six,  seven, eight  in  the  c.  You'll  try  let  me  see. I  try  to  this  one  may  not  have  enough  space. You  go  to  G  G. Let  me  see  gua  go  to  g. Okay.  If  you'll  go  to  TA. T.  I  think  the  other  big  one is  a  larger  is  a  TV  bro. Big  okay  go  TA  all  the students  two  but  you'll  go  to  TA. Yeah.  Yeah. They'll  go  to  G  eight. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.  I  think  everyone  G  eight who  forgot  to  bring the  copy  passport  or  I  do  at  the  end, you  need  to  stay. We  like  mobile  phone at  the  end  after  you  you  stay. So  this  is  a  punishment  also, you  do  not  follow  the  rules. So  remember  exam  you  or  another  quiz  you  do  b because  now  Dri  ing  mobile  phones and  de  the  quiz te  the  same  not  many  of  you have  sm  glasses  and  smart  watches. No  allowed  to  follow. Switch. A. Okay.  You  out. Remember  the  bro first Okay. Once  you  start,  you  50  minutes. So  any  problem? You'll  let  us  know. Okay  to  be  clear,  right? You  this  pars  logging  is  already on  You  go  to  first. Those  are  not  bringing your  copy  password  or  ID, you  do  first,  then  later  you  stay  back. Okay.  Lyte  check  set  b.  Log at  the  ps  But you  need  to  the  rock  down  browser  first. Together.  Here. You're  in  the  don't  sit  next to  one  of  you  to. These  are  the  eight. A  few  MD  she  come  in. I. Okay. If  you have a t from y. As Okay May. Thank  you. In  the  be a. Hello. Hello. Mule. Again. I  the  app of  the  later that  we'll  give  you  a  copy. Computer they  don't Oh. Male  check  the  middle  later. I  asked  the  TA  to check  we need  to  when. They  may  be  a  second. So  that's  the  will  call  fast. I  just. I. This  is  a  small  announcement. Get  out  of  the  pad  unnecessary. I  quick,  then  you  cannot  go  in  back  again. Be  careful  to  touch pad  you're  not  doing.  Be  careful. G If one  flow the  s  at  the five  to quick He. Wait,  everyone to  go. You'll  see  10  minutes  late. But  if  you're  log  in  a  little  bit  late  later, you  can  do  a  few  minutes  until your  f  lock  out. But  even  if  you'll  finish, you'll  need  to  wait  until the  time  is  up,  so  don't  leave. Now  sit  Patient  for 1010  more  minutes.  Okay.  Thank  you. And  one  more  thing  is  if your  computer  has  a  screener, that  means  you  screen  out, then  dive  it  one  screen  out, you  may  not  be  able  to  get  back. Then  you  consider  sub  after  that. Okay.  So  if  you  still  want  to  check, keep  your  computer  active,  a  lockdown  blower. Who  forgot  to  bring your  identic  pass  after  you  finish, you  stay  there.  Thank  you. To. So  a to you. To  find  of  family. Then  I  could  do  that. I  real t. Two  of  you  I'm  here. Please  wait  for  five  more  minutes because  the  system  will the  real  big  five  more  minutes.  You  go. And  make  sure  you  sub  if also  for  those  who  did  not bring  your  passport  or any  hard  copy  identification  card, you  stay  back  a  few  student your  computer  is  problem. You  took  the  hard  copy, and  make  sure  you  stay  back  and  submit  to us  majority  of  the  student you  way  for  a  few  more  minutes, a  few  more  minutes  before  we  release  you. Yeah.  Be  patient  few  more  minutes.  Please. To. Ten know  here. I  should  have. You're  here. Which  one  of  the. Okay.  Down  sit  down  here. Okay. Okay. Okay.  You  for only  those  who  pass or  copy  niation  number  the  problem,  copy. Please  come  here.  The  rest. Non. A  i. Yeah,  they  did  they  did  bring  the  check. Maybe  you  can  help  check  check. So  remember  bring. Go. A. Yeah. Trans.  I  think you  are  maybe  be  free now  dimension  thing,  right. This  is the  transformation  the  transformation. Four  by  34  by  three, then  I  plug  into  the  matrix  calculator. Then  this  is  the  three  by  three  matrix, right? This  is  the  P  transpose  P transpose  P  three  by  three  matrix. I  put  three  by  three  matrix,  right? I  got  to  find  the  determin  means  that the  determin  matrix  right?  Okay. 9.9.  I  need  by  to  tell I  think  it's  because  the  code  I  think the  small  big  mac  big  tiny  change the  dominant  need  to  be  very  small. Small  metric  by  and. Last  more  than  years. Recalculate  because  I  know  computation practical  the  first  one  is too  big  have  I big  marie  My in  you. My  parents  grandparents  they  trans straight  away  from. Okay. You  have  no  problems. We  need  to  double  check  the  system. You  can  discuss  with. How  will  we  be  able  to  end  of  today or  cony  may  not  be  able to  see  if  they  are  doing the  che  They  can  see  them  I  they don't  mark  for  you Maybe  photo  going  to  double check  to  see  how  many  got. A  few  of  them  is  how  many? Just  check  the  number. The  C  is  to submission  number  subision  number? Three.  Yeah.  Then  total  number  is  34344. 3446  of  ix  We  have  more  than  six. Can  you  go  in  to  check  the  name  we  have  a few  don't  worry  about  the  name  Yeah. Let  me  see  how  many  1234. No.  Only  the  last  two  group  near  the  end. I  think  there  is  one  young  young, you  go  to  the  you  go  to  the  name  list. You  go  to  put  out  each  of  the  student  name. You  go  to  the.  Yeah. They  don't  go. They  all  very  near  the  end  in  total  four. Two  young,  then  there  is  another  one. G  eight,  Can  you  give  me  a  two. So  in  total  six the  initially  the  o  in  the  middle. So  maybe  She  is  the  copy  one. Hop.  You,  you  go  to an  is  it  submission  No  submission. No  activity.  No. Young Young  Young. You  know  young. Why  you  say  who  is  the  group, six  You  say  he's  not  absent,  but  he  submit. Yeah.  Then  there's  a  problem. They  say  not  maybe  possibly  they  online. There's  a  problem  sure  not  But  how  can he  How  can  you Young  not  checking  at  the  other. So  do  you  check  I joined  all  the  people  who  were  there. I  marked  them  present. Okay.  So  maybe  maybe  I can  ask  him  to  come  to  me  in  person. Yeah.  I  never  see  other. A  here.  Who  is  doing? You  say  here.  I  also  pees. Maybe  also. It. Let  me  double  check  the  T is  whose  group  here. How  now  02. Total  no  activity. One  bottom. Yeah.  I  think  that's  probably  all  es. Then  only  two. Okay.  Then  probably  no  Shikai  is  a  g  problem. I  didn't.  Two  very I  think  I  saw  somewhere  he  was  absent. One,  two.  Okay.  Okay. Yeah. Okay.  Okay.  Three. Maybe  you'll  check  the  system. Maybe  a  totally  no  es.  Okay. I  think,  there  will  be three  pause  then  after maybe  five.  Yeah.  Okay. And  last  one.  Only  three. Very  good.  Thank  you.  Thank  you. Come  back  next  two  time. A  good  job. To  you.  Thank  you.  Okay. Thank  you.  Thank  you. Thank  you. With.  Yeah.  I  will  let  last  year. Hello,  guy.  Make  sure  you  can  come  for. I  check. A  bit. Pie H.
