Can  someone  give  me a  indication  if  you  can  hear  me? Are  you  guys  able  to  hear  me?  Okay. Yeah.  Thank  you.  Okay.  So  let me  make  sure  the  recording  is  done  started. Okay.  So.  So  today, we  are  going  to  just  go  some  review qu  for  the  upcoming, and  So  basically,  the  quiz  will be  the  kind  of  questions  will be  of  the  same  type  as  this  kind  as, you  know,  the  ones  you  you encounter  in  your  practice  problems  inside your  weekly  lecture  notes. So  every  week,  I  have  some  practice  problems. And  then  those  practice  problems are  more  basic. So  for  the  quiz  itself, you  expect  something  slightly more  difficult  than  those  practice  problems. Um  and  maybe  similar to  the  review  questions that  we're  going  to  go  through  today. Okay.  So  the  kind  of  difficulty. But  of  course,  the  quiz  itself  may involve  questions that  are  more  involved,  right? But  the  concepts  will  be  the  same. Okay.  Let's  go  through the  first  u  First  question. Here,  we  are  given the  basic  distribution  from the  gausin  distribution  with Ming  Mal  and  var  Sigma  square. The  Ming  is  known,  so  this  is  given, so  we  are  trying  to  estimate the  Sigma  the  vars.  Okay. So  to  find  the  MLE  of  the  variance, first  of  all,  we  need  to  know  right  now the  lot  livelihood.  Okay. So  recall,  the  hood  of  of a  galcan  is  given  by  this  formula  over  here. 1/2  square  s  minus  mi  square. The  lot  likelihood, the  lot  likelihood  of  all  the  term  s, that's  one  as  two. This  will  be  because  we're  taking  lot, it  becomes  a  summation. Then  we  can  just  plug everything  in  the  summation. You  have  basic  the  singlehood  term inside  and  take  the  lock. This  will  give  you minus  half  Ci. The  two  pi  and  all  that, we  actually  don't  have  to worry  because  it doesn't  contain  Sigma  square, so  we'll  just  lump  in  to the  constant  and  then  minus  Cigma  square. And  that  plus  some  constant. So  this  one  does  not  depend on  does  not  depend  sigma  signal. Okay. So  then  we  can simplify  b  minus. Pointer. Then  finally,  we  will  just do  the  partial  derivative, with  respect  to  Cigna  square. We  are  treating  the  Sigma  square  as one  single  term  so  we can  do  partial  derivative. We  will  respect  to  Cigna  square. We  think  of  the  Sigma  square as  one  single  term  by  itself. While  we're  going  to  take the  partial  derivative, this  one  will  give  minus over  to  Sigma  square. This  one  will  be  plus 1/2  sigma  square  square. And  this  summation  has no  sigma  square  inside, so  it's  treated  as  a  consent  then. Then  we  are  trying  to  solve  for  Sigma  square. We  can  see  that  Sigma  is going  to  be  one  over  n. So  that's  how  this  standard  way where  you  find  the  MLE. By  the  way,  if  you  have  questions, you  can  also  mute  yourself  or  you can  type  your  questions in  the  chat  either  way. Okay. This  one  should  be  quite  straightforward, right? Any  issues?  Any  questions? If  not,  then  we  move  on. The  second  question  is  also  similar. Also  about  MLE,  right? I  mean,  the  Part A  and  C  on  MLE  Part  B  is  on  the  EM. Okay. So  Part  A,  right, find  the  MLE  of  data. So  now  you  have  a  badon  description. Yeah,  and  you're  given  an  observation you're  trying  to  find  the  MLE. So  again,  the  lot  block  ho. The  ads  theta  plus I  think  this  one  Yeah, you  probably  have  already encountered  in  the  slides  as  well. So  we  are  differentiating with  respect  to  data. That  data  minus  equals  to  zero. So  solve  for  theta. So  this  MLE  will  give  you  will  be. Okay.  So  let's  go  on  to  B. So  EM  algorithm  Y  is  the  complete  data. D  is  the  parameter  to  be  estimated. So  whether  true  or  false,  right? In  the  E  state,  we  are  trying to  find  the  expectation  of this  of  conditional  distribution of  Y  given  me. But  the  expectation  condition  on the  observation  ads  and the  estimate  of  u  in  the  previous  iteration. So  is  this  true? So  basically,  in  the  E  step. In  the  e  step,  we  are  trying  to compute  this  Q  function,  right? So  now  Q  of M  is  the  previous  iteration  estimate. So  this  is  the  expectation  we  respect  to taking  condition  of  pe  condition  on your  observation  ads and  your  previous  itteration. Okay. So  the  PDF  that  we  are  taking expectation  over  is  basically using  the  previous  estimate. Then  taking  the  expectation  of lot  of  this  P  Y  given. So  that  is  your  e  step  in  your  M  algorithm. Okay.  So  maybe  to  write  it  more  properly, I  need  to  write  it  as  condition. Although  this  is  the  PDF. Yeah.  So  that  means  just  write as  conditional  expectation. Okay.  So  in  fact, in  terms  of  the  mathematical  notation, right,  once  we  write  it  like  that, this  is  kind  of  redundant, but  this  is  just  to  emphasize  that the  expectation  is  with respect  to  this  condition, this  condition  on  this. Okay.  So  indeed, this  is  exactly  what  is  described  here. But  finding  the  expectation of  this  guy  condition on  s  and  the  estimate  of me  in  the  previous  situation. Okay.  So  this  is  true. Okay,  S.  Now  we  are  given  a  data  set  of IID  copies  with  coming from  this  what's  eponur, description  with  parameter  Lada. So  we  want  to  write  down the  Light  book  function  and find  the  maximum  lid  book  estimate. So  do  function  of  the  data  set  even  Lambda. Because  it's  IID,  we  can  write  it  as a  product  of  the  individual  sample  IDs. Then  each  of  them  is  exponential, so  we  know  that  this  is  Lambda minus  Lambda  at. So  we  can  simplify  a  b. That  will  be  a  hood. Then  we  want  to  find  the  ML E.  Let's  take  the  lock. We  will  take  the  find  the  Lod  and block  D.  Find  the  Da  submission. And  then  we  want  to the  lot  hole  and  then  we  take the  partial  Palat  respect  to  Lambda. So  we  have  Lambda  minus  summation. And  then  set  zero. Lambda  solve  for the  lamda  summation.  All  right.  Okay. Yeah,  I  guess  one  common mistake  is  that  I  mean, make  sure  that  you  find the  likelihood  or  locked  likelyhood, either  one  or  them  correctly. So  this  lambda  is  inside  the  product, so  make  sure  that,  you  know, you  have  a  Lambda  power  g  over  here. So  this  is  one  common  mistake that  students  tend  to  be careless  and  miss  out  the  power  g. All  right.  Okay.  So  let's  move  on. Okay.  So  now  we  come  to  Markle  chains. We  have  a  mark  chain here  only  run  for  three  time  steps. This  mark  chain  we have  run  for  three  time  steps. The  transition  diagram  is  given  here. So  we  can  see  that  in  this  mark  chain, there  are  two  states,  is  two  states. So  your  transition  matrix will  be  a  two  by  two  matrix. So  it  is  a  two  by  two.  So  this one  corresponds  to  state  one, state  two,  state  one,  state  two. Okay.  So  we  just  have to  see  from  the  diagram, what  are  the  transition  probabilities. So  here  this  guy  will be  the  transition  probability going  from  state  one  back  to  state  one. So  you  can  see  here  is  0.3. Then  the  next  one, this  will  be  the  transition  probability  going 1-21  to  two,  you  have  0.7. Then  you  have  transition  2-1, 0.4  and  transition  from  two  back  to  20.6. You  can  also  verify  your  answer  by checking  that  the  rule sum  has  to  be  post  one. So  each  rule  has  to  be  sum  to  one. Okay.  So  now  we  are  given the  initial  description  of  x  zero, right,  the  first  variable  inside your  macro  chain  is  given  by  this. So  because  this  is  a  two  state  macro  chain, we  can  see  that  it's  actually a  binary  radium  variable. So  that's  the  initial  distribution, right  this  is  the  probability that  is  equals  to  one, and  this  is  the  probability that  is  equal  to  two. This  Pi  01,  equals  to  data. This  is  the  probability  probability that  x  zero  equals  to  one. And  then  the  probability  that  x  zero equals  to  two  is  just  Pi  02. So  it's  given  by  one  minus  data. We  are  interested  to  find  the distribution  of  X  one. So  we  know  that Pi  one  is  just  the  Pi zero  times  the  transition  matric. Okay.  So  we  have we  think  of  it  as  a  row  vector  theta one  minus  theta,  multiply  by  this. So  you  can  go  so  we  can  weigh  out. This  is  zero  point. 0.4.  The  constant  term  is  0.40 0.4  and  then  minus  -0.1  theta. So  basically,  you  have  0.3  theta  plus 0.4  times  one  minus  theta. That's  your  first  term. Then  the  second  term  would  be  0.6, and  then  0.7  -0.6  plus  0.1  dt. That  would  be  your  Pi  one. Now  we  want  to  find the  transition  from  X  zero  directly  to  X  two. So  basically, the  transition  from  X  zero  to  X  one, this  will  use  the  t  t  to  transition, and  then  from  X  one  to  X  two  will  be t  to  find  the  transition directly  from  X  one  to  X  two, the  two  ts  multiplied  together. So  this  transition  is  given  by  t s.  So  this.  Okay. So  I  just  right  now  to  answer. This  one  is  amica  computation. And  the  distribution  of 2p2p0 squa  g  square. 0.36  plus  0.01, and  then  0.60  0.29. Okay.  So  that's  your  i  two. Okay.  So  now  in  part  D, right,  we  have  two  observations. So  each  observation  is  a  sequence. So  basically,  this  is  the  first  sample this  is  your  second  sample  sequence. So  we're  trying  to  find  the  MLE  of  data. Okay. So  so  we  need to  find  the  light  hole  or the  lot  light  hole  and  then differentiate  with  respect  to. Data.  So  we  also  assume  that  the  ID. So  basically  we'll  take the  likelihood  of  this  guy, multiply  by  the  hood  of  this  guy.  Okay. So  what's  the  likelihood  of  one? So  basically,  the  transition  is one  to  two  to  that  to  one,  right? So  the  what  is  the  likelihood? So  theho  of  one, that  is  the  initial  distribution. This  is  given  by  data right  that's  given  here,  right? This  is  your  i  zero. So  one  will  have  data, and  then  The  transitioning  1-2, one  to  two  is given  by  0.7,  this  kind  over  head. Multiply  0.7,  and  then  2-1  2-1, you  have  0.4.  0.4.  Okay. And  then  the  second  observation  is two  to  12121,  right. The  two  has  in  one  minus  theta. Then  the  transition  2-1  is  0.4. And  the  transition  from one  to  itself  one  to  one  is  0.3. Basically,  we  are  taking these  two  multiply  together. So  we  can  simplify. I'll  give  you  some  constant. I  just  write  out  the  concern, but  this  constant  at  it  doesn't matter  after  you  differentiate. So  you  have  this  expression  over  here. So  if  we  take  the  lot  take  the  lot, you  basically  have  lot  data plus  one  minus  data some  constantly  doesn't  method. And  then  we  take  the  city with  respect  to  data. So  you  have  data  minus. Set  two.  So  we  can  see  that  then this  will  be  the  ML  estimate  of  data  is  half. So  that's  for  the  MLE  of  Data. Any  questions  here  so  far? Okay.  So  then  we  look  at  the  sp  Part  E. So  we  have  two  IID  observations. Now  I  I  don't  tell  you  the  whole  sequence. So  here  in  Part  E, I  only  observe  a  two. So  originally,  you  have  the  whole  sequence. You  have  t0x1  at  two,  right? But  in  this  in  P  E  in  this  special  situation, you  only  managed  to  observe  only  at  two. So  you  don't  know  these  two  first  two  values. In  this  case,  how do  we  find  the  ML  E  of  data? So  same  thing.  So  to find  the  MLE  is  always  to basically  to  figure  out  what's the  hood  or  and then  we  can  try  to  maximize  that. So  since  we  only  observe  X  two, we  basically  just  have  to do  at  the  Pi  two,  right? So  basically, the  Pi  two  is  the  distribution  of  X  two. So  you  can  see  that  the  Pi  two will  work  out  to  be  equals  to  this. So  in  this  case,  both  the  observations are  both  equals  to  one,  right? So  this  correspond  to  state  one, the  correspond  to  state  two. So  basically,  the  light  is the  probability  of  X two  equals  to  one  right  multiply  twice. So  your  lightly. Yeah.  You  light  ego is  equals  to  0.36  plus  0.1  theta  square. That  is  square  is because  both  of  them  are  equals  to  one. I  say  if  one  then equals  11  then  equals  to  two, then  basic,  you  have  to take  these  two  expressions  together. So  depending  on  what  you  observe. Here,  we  happen  to  see  that  both  of  them  one, that's  why  your  equals  to  this. In  this  situation,  we  want  to  maximize  this. We  want  to  maximize.  There's  no  need to  try  to  go  in differentiate  because  you  can see  that  this  expression, this  is  a  quanttive  function  in terms  of  data  is  increasing. To  maximize  it,  we basically  have  to  choose the  maximum  value  of  data. And  your  data  what  data. Data  is  a  probability, so  we  can  only  range  0-1. Data  is  between  zero. Okay.  So  to  maximize this  expiration,  basically, we  just  choose  your  data  to be  as  big  as  possible,  we  suppose. Okay? Okay.  You  can  see  that  there's  a  contrast here  depending  on what  information  you  actually  observe. In  the  Part  D,  you  observe  a  sequence. The  last  X  two  is  also  equals  to  one. The  two  sequences  you  observe is  two  equals  to  one. But  since  you  observe  the  sequence, or  rather  you  actually  observe  the  ad  zero, you'll  get  a  MLE  that  is  equals  to f.  Whereas  in  Part  E, right,  you  only  observe  the  two. You  don't  observe  zero  and  one,  right? And  then  it  turns  out  that the  MLE  becomes  one. So  this  MLE  of  the  same  parameter depends  on  the  likelihood of  what  you  observe,  right? So  it's  really  dependent  on  what is  the  observation  that  you  are given  and  what  is  the livelihood  of  that  observation. Okay.  Any  questions?  A. Yeah.  Some  of  you  may  have noticed  that  in  Part  D,  right? Actually, the  transition  actually  doesn't  matter. These  are  all  independent  of  data. The  only  thing  that  matters  is  just  the. So  in  fact,  all  these  things  don't  matter. So  that's  why  you  can  see  that  the  o  is the  This  is  the  MLE  as  you  will  get. So  same  it  goes  to  the  MLE, we  only  observe  zero. Because  only  the  zero  depends  on  data, the  rest  does  it. So  this  MLE  this  party actually  is  we  give you  some  slightly  redundant  information. Okay,  now  we  go  to  four. Okay.  So  here,  this is  more  of  a  descriptive  question. So  so  in  Chinese,  right, each  sentence  consists  of a  sequence  of  characters. A  speech  model  uses AI  to  transcribe a  spoken  Chinese  sentence into  written  characters. Okay.  So  the  spoken  sentence is  token into  the  so  called  spoken  characters. So  ST  is  the  observation. So  this  is  basically  the  voice  recording, right,  the  features  you extract  from  the  voice  recording. Orresponding  to  the  T  spoken  character. So  that's  why  this  is  we  can treat  this  model  these  with a  hidden  Markov  model  because  we  don't actually  observe the  actual  character  that  is  being  spoken. What  you  observe,  right  is  something that  is  consists  of  the  void,  right. So  T.  So  we can  use  Z  to represent  the  actual  character that  is  being  spoken. And  then  for  each  character, that  is  the  actual  character  is  going  to  emit a  corresponding  spoken  recording. So  you  have  all  these. So.  So  this  is  your  HMM. Yeah.  So  to  describe  this  HMM, you  need  a  transition  model. So  you  need  to  specify. So  we  basically  assume  that the  characters  are  the  actual  characters, which  are  latent  follows a  macro  chain  with some  transition  model,  right. So  Yeah. And  this  transition  model  is basically  corresponds  to  your  language  model. The  probability  of  getting a  practicality given  the  previous  character,  right? This  is  your  macro  chain. So  this  will  correspond  to  the  language, the  language  model. Okay.  And  then  the  emissions  itself. This  will  basically  corresponds to  the  acoustic  model. Okay.  So  this  is  some  probability of  D  given  ZT. So  this  will  give  you  the  emission. So  this  will  correspond  to the  k.  In  this  case  is  the  acoustic. Okay. So  the  language  model  we  will  represent, right,  using  a  truck. What's  that  transition  metric. Okay.  So  this  will  be  something  that  Yeah, something  that  basically  n  by  n  matric. So  this  would  be  basically the  total  number  of Chinese  characters,  in  your  dictionary. Okay.  So  it  is  actually a  very  deep  transition  matrx. Yeah.  Acoustic  model  is then  depends  on  your  environment,  h. So  Yeah. So  there's  nothing  much  more  we  can  say. So  that's  how  you  describe your  HMM,  basically, you  just  have  to  say  what  makes  up  the  HMM, what  are  the  latent  states? What  are  the  emission  states? Sorry,  what  are  the  latent  variables? What  are  the  emission  variables? And  then  for  the  latent  variables, what  is  the  what is  how  do  we  come up  with  the  transition  metric? What  does  it  correspond  to? And  the  emission  model  also, what  does  it  correspond to  depending  on  your  application. Okay.  So  then  in  Part  B, what  algorithm  will  you  use to  learn  the  parameters  of  HMM? So  we  saw  that  we had  to  use  this  bone  Wah  algorithm, which  is  a  special  form  of  the  EM  algorithm. But  to  be  more  specific, your  answers  will  be  bone  Wah. If  you  just  put  EM  algorithm, then  although,  I  mean, technically  is  correct,  but, you  know,  it  doesn't  show that  you  actually  know  that,  you  know, there's  this  algorithm  for  HMM, right  to  solve  for the  the  MLE  of  the  parameters. Okay.  So  you  should try  to  use  a  more  specific  name. So  for  example,  in  the  home  homework, right,  there's  also  a  similar  question. Some  of  you  actually  just  wrote  EM  algorithm, right  instead  of  mentioning the  bone  Watch  algorithm. I  didn't  subject  any  marks  for  that, but  I  mean,  I  hope,  you  know, if  you  encounter  the  same  problem in  the  quiz  or  the  final  exam, right,  please  be  more specific  instead  of  just  saying  EM  algorithm. Okay.  Then  PC,  right given  given  the  observations up  to  a  sequence  of  observations, how  would  you  infer  all  the  characters? So  basically,  we  are  trying  to  infer  the  C, sorry,  there's  a  typo  here. So  one  and  so. One  up  to  z  t. So  I  give  you the  whole  sequence  of  observations. I  want  to  infer the  whole  sequence  of  latent  characters. This  one,  we  know  that  we  have  to  use the  verb  verte  B  algorithm. Other  answers  are  not going  to  be  correct,  right. It's  not  like  the  forward  backward  algorithm. Forward  backward  is  to solve  the  bone  watch,  right? It  is  going  to  find the  parameters  and  then  forward, you  can  only  do  the  filtering,  right? You  can  try  to estimate  the  best  estimate  for  T, given  all  the  past  observations. But  here  we  are  trying  to  find the  best  estimate  of the  whole  sequence  z  zero  to  z. So  we  have  to  use  the  verte  algorithm. So  this  is  the  only  correct  answer. Okay.  So  that's  it. So  I  just  check. Did  I  miss  out  any  questions? Okay.  Yeah.  So  there are  only  four  questions  here. Okay.  Any  things  that  you  guys  want  to  ask? Yeah,  I  I  will  upload  this,  you  know, this  annotated  PDF  later. So  anything  not  clear? So  basically,  the  quiz  will  be  you  expect, I  mean,  based  on  the  material,  right. There  will  be  questions  asking you  about  finding  MLEs. So  this  one  you'll  need  to  be very  familiar.  All  right. So  there  could  be  questions  asking  you  about different  aspects  of  M  or  hidden  Mc  models. Of  course,  yeah,  not  to  forget the  EM,  EM  algorithm. I  mean,  this  will  be more  descriptive  kind  of  thing. For  the  EM  algorithm. I  mean,  I'm  not  going  to  ask  you to  derive  complicated  formulas. So  basically, there  could  be  questions  testing  you  on, what  is  the  each  step of  the  EM  algorithm  trying  to  achieve. More  descriptive  kind  of  qui. More  examples  of  solving  the  boundary  MLE. Okay.  So  in  general,  right,  I  mean, you  need  to  be  more  open  binded  in  terms of  try  to  maximize the  likelihood  or  lock  likelihood, right,  don't  go  into the  mindset  that  you  always  have  to differentiate  and  then  set  to zero  and  then  solve  the  situation,  right. So  basically  the  main  objective  is  to maximize  this  likelihood or  locked  likelihood,  right? So  if  you  are  able  to  maximize  it, then,  you  know,  you just  do  it  directly,  right? There's  no  need  to try  to  differentiate  or  anything  like  that. And  of  course,  when  you  maximize, we  also  need  to  know  what  is the  the  given  question,  right? The  quion  is  telling  you the  data  is  0-1,  right? So  your  optimizer  has  to  be  0-1. Even  if  you  do  this  weight, right,  you  take  the  derivative, you  also  need  to  ensure  right  at  the  end, whatever  you  find  right  is within  your  target  range. So  if  you  find  something  if  you  happen  to find  a  maximizer  that is  outside  of  this  target  range, then  that  cannot  be  the  right  answer,  right. Then  you  have  to  go  and  figure out  to  analyze, what  is  the  maximum  value within  this  target  range? Okay.  So  I  think  in the  in  the  homework,  right? In  the  homework,  there's  also  an  example  that shows  finding  the  MLE. So  in  that  case,  right,  basically the  MLE  okay. Remember  correctly,  it  was  dependent  on  Yeah. So  there's  a  p  minus  que, right,  something  like  this. And  then  in  the  likelihood, the  likelihood  function  or the  log  likelihood  function  only depends  on  something  like  this,  right? And  we're  trying  to  find  the  MLE  of  this  A. So  so  we  can see  this  is  a  linear  function,  right. So  it's  either  increasing  or  decreasing, right,  depending  on  what is  the  core  efficient  over  here. So  if  this  guy,  if this  p  minus  que  is  positive, then  is  increasing,  right? Is  a  increasing  function. So  to  maximize  the  increasing  function, of  course,  you  basically choose  the  biggest  value,  right. So  the  one  that  is  at the  boundary  right  of  your  feasible  range. If  it's  if  it's  decreasing, so  your  linear  function  looks  like  this. And  this  is  your  your  boundary, your  feasible  range. Then  of  course,  the  maximum  value  will be  will  correspond  to  this  one  p. The  maximum  value. Okay.  In  different  situations, it  really  depends  on  the  function. There's  no  one  standard  way  to  do  it. But  I  guess  the  key  point  is whatever  maximum  or  minimum  value  that  you're trying  to  find  has  to be  within  whatever  range that  you're  given  Okay. And  any  other  questions? For  boundary  MLI  with no  differentiable  ML can  no,  that's  not  true,  right. It  really  depends  on  the  function  you  are trying  to  maximize,  right. So  that's  why  there's no  one  standard  answer  to  this  question, the  likelihood  function, whatever  function  you're  trying  to  maximize, you  just  have  to  go  and  maximize. So  for  example,  your  likelihood  function, So  maybe  your  livelihood  function do  something  likely  side. Okay.  So  if  I allow  your  data,  this  is  your  data,  right? This  is  your  livelihood  function,  your  data. Either  livelihood  or  lilihood,  right. If  you  are  trying  to  maximize  this, without  any  constraint  on  data, then  of  course,  this  is  your  optimal,  right? But  if  now  I  tell  you  that  the  data,  right? The  data  can  only  be  between  this  range. I  only  allow  your  data  to  be  here. Then  what's  your  maximum? Then  your  maximum  is on  the  boundary  down  here,  right? So  how  to  find  this,  then  you have  to  do  some  analysis,  right? You  have  to  figure  out, you  based  on  this  data. Is  this  guy  increasing or  decreasing  in  this  range? So  then  then  you  I  mean, it  depends  on  the  exactly what  is  this  function,  right. So  maybe  okay. So  I  mean, this  could  be  one  possible  scenario  or  maybe there's another  scenario  that  looks  like  this. It's  like  you  have  this  one right  like  that.  Okay. So  the  global  maximum  is  this,  right. But  if  now  I  tell  you, If  I  tell  you  that  I only  allow  your  data  to  be  here. And  of  course,  this will  now  become  your  data  star,  right. So  the  function  your  likelihood depends  on  I  mean, to  find  the  maximum  value, really  try  just  to  find the  maximum  value  of  theho  function,  right? And  the  function  function  can  take on  infinite  possibilities,  right. So  you  really  have  to  go  and  analyze the  likelihood  function  and  see  which one  what  is  the  maximizer. So  you  cannot  say  that the  MOE  is  can  only  take  on  certain  values. I  think  it  will  be  helpful if  you  encounter  these  kind  of  cases, to  just  draw  out  the  curve, right?  You  just  plot  it  out. For  exactly  what  I'm  doing  here, draw  out  what  the  likelihood  function  or  what the  locked  likelihood  function  looks like  over  different  data  value, then  you  should  be  able  to  see  the  answer  c. Any  other  questions? Yeah.  Maybe  it's  ask  to  supplement,  right? So  this  kind  of  situations  can  happen in  the  more  high  dimensional  cases. That's  why  when  we  use  the  EM  algorithm, there's  no  guarantee  that  you  will always  the  global  maximum. Oh.  So  in  your  EM  algorithm is  basically  is  an  approximate  algorithm. So  you  may  not  always find  the  global  maximum,  right? But  you  are  guaranteed  to  find  local,  right. So  it's  possible  that  if  you initize  your  let's  say  your  EM  algorithm, right,  your  initial  guess, for  example,  you  start  out  from  here, right  and  then  it's  able  to  reach this  point  and  find  this  the  global  maximum. But  maybe  if  you  If you  do  the  initial guess  carting  off  from  here, then  maybe  your  M  algorithm, only  managed  to  find  this  one. So  this  will  be  the  local  optimal  value. Okay. Yeah. So  your  LU  function  can  have  this  kind  of multiple  pits  which  is  convex. If  it's  not  convex,  then  there's no  guarantee  you  can  find  the  global  one. Okay.  Cool.  Any  further  questions? Anybody? All  right. Okay.  So,  if  you  have  any  further  questions, most  welcome  to  e  mail  me. Okay.  And  we  will  end  here  today. Yeah.  I'll  see  you  next  for the  i  and  the  final.  Okay. So  Someone  is  typing  a  question. Oh,  okay.  Okay.  Thank  you. Thank  you  very  much.  So  we  end  here  today. Yeah. Thank  you.
