Okay.  Good  evening,  everybody. Okay.  So  the  quiz  that  a  reminder  about the  quiz  next  week  during  the  lecture  itself. So  we  will  start  at  around  7:00  P.M. So  please  come  on  time. And  the  topic  is  covered  will be  from  ez  one  to  four. So  basically  last  week  and this  week  will  not  be  tested  in  the  quiz, but  of  cost  will  be  tested  in  the  final  exam. So  you  will  take  about  60  minutes. Yeah.  And  very  importantly, the  lock  down  browser,  right. So  make  sure  that  you  have  install it  and  tested  it  on  the  lock  quiz. Okay,  you  will  be  too  late  if you  come  here  and  try  to install  and  then  try  to  do the  quiz  that  will  be  too  late. Okay.  Make  sure  you  download  the  install  on your  laptop  or  your  table with  egg  one  you  use  for  your  Quiz. Make  sure  it's  working  with  the  lock  quiz  and then  you  will  be then  you'll  be  in  good  shape. Okay.  So  to  help you  to  do  some  revision  for  the  quiz, I'm  going  to  comb  a  review  on  16th, September,  so  that  is on  Wednesday,  10:00  A.M. Via  Teams.  The  teams  are  links  over  here. The  session  will  be  recorded. So  don't  worry  if  you  cut  a  ten  so I'll  record  and  post  it  on  the  ti. And  there  are  the  review  questions are  also  available  for  you  to  try  out. So  basically,  I  will  go  through the  discuss  the  solution to  the  review  questions. And  of  course  you  are most  welcome  to  send  me, you  know, any  questions  or  anything  that  you  want me  to  review  during  the  session  itself. You  can  always  e  mail  to  me  first. Okay.  And  of  course, any  questions  that  you  may  have,  right? You  can  ask  during  the  review. Okay.  Yeah. So  that's  for  that.  Okay. So  we  will  start  on  today's  lecture. So  yeah. So  today  will  be  actually the  the  last  full  lecture for  the  first  half  of  this  course. Then  next  week  we  will  do  the  quiz, and  then  after  the  quiz, we  will  actually  do  also  a  summary  review. So  basically  after  the  quiz, I  will  go  through  some  pass  at equations  and  review  some  materia.  Okay. Yeah.  So  this  is  basically the  last  part  of the  actual  material  covering  this  course. So  we're  going  to  talk  about  this tic  mark  chain  Marcel chain  Multi  Color  technique. Us  to  remind  everybody why  we  need  to  do  syncing. This  is  following  from  what we  did  started  from  last  week. We  talk  about  different  secing  techniques. Why  is  it  that  we  need  to  do  sending? Just  a  quick  recap. One  application  is  where you  have  a  clean  image, and  what  you  actually observe  is  the  corrupted  image, which  is  basically  with  noise added  to  every  pixel  of  this  clean  image. This  is  what  you  receive  and  we hope  to  be  able  to  so  called  the  noise. Remove  the  noise  from  this  corrupted  image. So  we  can  represent the  pixel  value  for  the  creen  image  using  Z. Z  basically  takes  on  plus  minus  one. Because  this  is  a  binary  image. So  for  simplicity,  we  assume  this  is  binary. So  every  pixel  has  only  value  plus  or minus  one  plus  one may  refers  to  the  white  pixel and  minus  one  is  a  black. Then  we  are  trying  to  find  the  values  of  z, all  the  Z  values, all  the  pizzer  values  inside  this  image. But  what  we  give  you, what  you  observe  is  the  y, which  is  the  corrupted  one  with  the  noise. You  are  given  y,  you  observe  y, and  what  we  are  trying  to  infer  is  the  z. That's  why  we  want  to  come  out  with a  posterior  distribution  to  say that  if  I  give  you  this  particular  Y, this  particular  realization, I  hope  to  be  able  to  find  what is  the  most  likely  one  or  make  use of  this  posior  distribution to  help  me  to  compete. What  to  estimate  what are  the  true  values  of  z. Okay. According  to  your  base  rule, I  can  write  the  poster  using a  likelihood  multiplied  by  the  pyal, divided  by  the  marginal  distribution of  your  observation. We  saw  that  to  come  out  with a  reasonable  pyal  distribution, we  should  choose  something that  allows  to  capture the  relationship  between  the  pizzel  values, the  pizzel  values. We  know  that  the  image  for each  pizzel  value  is  going  to be  highly  correlated with  its  neighboring  pizzel. For  example,  if  you look  at  a  white  color  pizzel, then  most  likely  its  neighbors, all  white  pizzels. If  you  look  at  black  one, then  most  likely  neighbors  are  also  flat. Of  course,  there  will  be  some  on the  boundary  whereby  half  of  them  are  black, about  half  of  them  are  black. So  this  is  becomes probablistic  in  nature,  Stoksti. But  in  any  case,  you  can see  that  in  all  these  situation, there's  still  high  correlation between  neighboring  pizzas. When  we  choose  a  z,  we  cannot  choose a  simplistic  prior  description. I  don't  want  to  choose  something  that basically  says  that  all  the  pizza  values are  independent  of  each  other, then  that  is  not  reasonable. In  that  case,  So that's  why  we  want  to  choose  a  z  that allows  us  to  capture this  spatial  core  relationships between  all  the  pixels. And  this  means  that  I  cannot  decompose this  pit  individual  distributions into  the  product  of  individual  distributions. Even  though  the  likelihood, we  can  actually  make  it  to be  a  very  simple  product of  individual  conditional  distributions. Basically,  we  just  assume  that  each  of  the  Y, each  of  the  corrupted  pixel  only  depends on  the  underlying  true  value  of  the  pixel. And  then  we  just  assume  that  it's the  uning  true  value  that  is corrupted  by  some  independent  noise. But  of  course,  in a  more  sophisticated  scenario, you  may  also  imagine that  maybe  the  corruption, the  noise  itself  is also  correlated  to  each  other. But  that  one  we will  not  discuss  in  this  course. We  can  actually  in  the  simpler  stage, actually  use  a  very  simplistic  architecture, a  very  simplistic  assumption for  this  likelihood. Yeah.  But  the  problem  is  this  pier, you  cannot  use  a  simplistic  assumption. Because  of  that,  we  can  see that  this  posterior  distribution  cannot  be decomposed  into  a  product  of individual  distributions  and  this  makes it  necessary  to  consider the  whole  posterior  distribution  together. We  cannot  just  decompose into  individual  simple  ones. This  whole  thing,  because  it  consists of  many  z  values. This  is  actually  a  high  dimensional  factor. So  it's  basically  all  the  total  number of  pieces  in  this  image. Is  consider  a  high  dimensional  distribution. Then  because  it's  a  high dimensional  distribution, is  very  difficult  to  model. Remember,  in  our  very  first  lecture, we  talked  about  one  easy  way  to model  is  if  we  can  use  a  conjugate  ir. If  I  manage  very  lucky, I  can  find  a  conjugate  y, then  the  posterior  will  also  be  in the  same  distribution  as  a  y  and  then  I just  need  to  determine the  updated  methods of  this  posterior  distribution. But  of  co  in  real  applications, we're  not  going  to  be  so  lucky  all  the  time. We  need  to  have  a  way  to  deal with  this  kind  high  dimensional  distribution, how  do  we  do influence  on  the  high dimensional  distribution, without  actually  having  to  know exactly  what  is  that  distribution. People  basically  think  of a  way  to  do  it  by  doing spring  if  I  can  draw samples  from  this high  dimensional  distribution, without  having  to  know  exactly  what  it  is, but  still  being  able  to generate  samples  from  this  distribution, then  I  can  do  something. Previously,  we  have  studied different  sent  bring  techniques.  So  we Okay. So  we  have  studied  in  the  last  we  have consider  the  standard  distributions. So  remember  basically,  if  I can  find  the  inverse  CDF, I  can  always  sample  by drawing  a  uniform  agon  variable and  then  apply  the  inverse  CDF. Or  if  I  if  I  can  do the  transformation  from  11  random  v, one  simple  random  vile  into  another, then  I  can  easily  sample  the  simple  one  and then  do  the  transformation into  the  more  complex  one. That's  actually  you  know  the transformation  relationship  between  them. So  that's  in  the  easiest  case,  right? And  then  we  saw  in  the  more  general  case, we  can  do  rejection  sampling. So  this  one  you  will  have a  a  proposal  distribution. You  come  up  with  a  proposal  distribution that  is  easy  to  sample  from  and you  choose  a  suitable  constant to  multiply  it  so  that this  guy  is  always  bigger  than your  target  PDF  that  you  want  to  sample  from. Moreover,  this  technique  doesn't require  us  to  know  exactly  the  target  PDF. We  just  need  to  know  the  normalized  version. Most  of  the  time,  we  will  not  be  able to  know  the  exact  target  PDF, but  we  only  know  the  normalized  version. The  example  is  given  here. Most  of  the  time,  because  I  can model  this,  I  can  model  this  side, but  to  compute  this  side  at  the  bottom, it's  going  to  be  very  difficult because  to  compute  this  side, I  basically  need  to  integrate this  with  respect  to  z, and  that  would  become  very  difficult  because your  z  is  a  high  dimensional  factor. If  I  doing  integration, I'm  basically  integrating a  high  dimensional  space. I  don't  want  to  be  able  to  have  to be  forced  to  find  the  normalization  constant. So  the  technique  that  we  hope  to  do is  always  like  we  try  to come  up  with  some  sampling  technique that  work  with  the  normalized  version. Okay.  And  then  we  also talk  about  important  sampling. This  is  to  find  things  like the  expectation  the  expectation of  some  function. For  example,  in  your  EM  algorithm, in  your  E  step, we  need  to  find  the  expectation the  conditional  expectation  of  some  function, which  is  the  lot  of  the  hood  function. So  Important  sampling  will  be very  very  useful,  and  of  course, from  the  important  sampling, we  also  saw  that  by  just doing  additional  step  called  resembling. So  this  call  SIR,  sending  import  resembling. By  doing  the  resembling, you  can  also  get  the  actual  samples  as  well. Okay. But  previously,  all  these  techniques  that  we saw  last  week  are  for  low  dimensional  PDS, meaning  that  your  Z,  right? The  Z  that  you're  trying  to  sample  from is  is  either  a  scaled  value  or, you  know,  from  maybe  two  dimensions  at  most. So  so  your  Z  is  inside some  real  value  and then  maybe  at  up  to  two  dimensions. Okay.  So  then  these  techniques will  work  quite  well. But  when  it  comes to  hundreds  and  thousands  of  dimension, right,  then  you  will be  very  difficult  to  apply  these  techniques. Okay. So  yeah,  but  they  will  be  useful  to  use a  sub  routines  in the  sendling  methods  that we're  going  to  discuss  snicks.  Okay. Okay.  So  Okay. We  are  going  to  talk  about this  thing  called  MCMC. So  Markle  chain  multicolor as  you  can  see  that  the  name implies  is  going  to  make  use  of  Mcle  chain. We  learn  something  about  the  macro  chain  in  W T.  We  talk  about Markle  chain  model  as  well a  hidden  mako  model. We  will  go  back  we'll  make use  of  the  same  concept  there  and  see how  we  can  make  use  of  the  mako  chain  inside the  mult  Multics random  random  same  pain.  So  MCMC. This  method  is  actually  considered  one  of the  ten  most  important  algorithms of  the  20th  century. Without  this  CNC  technique, a  lot  of  things  cannot  be  done. Now  modern  statistics, modern  machine  learning, or  make  use  of  CMC. Yeah,  that's  a  bit  of  history. MCMC  was  first  discovered  by  Metropolis or  proposed  by  metropolis  in  1953. He's  actually  a  physical  chemistry  guy. He  was  trying  to  do  some data  analysis  and  then came  up  with  this  metropolis  algorithm. And  then  only  in  1970, Histings  came  up  with  a  more  general  version. Histing  is  from  statistics. We  came  up  with  a  more  general  version. So  that's  why  nowadays the  algorithm  is  called Metropolis  Hastings  algorithm. So  we'll  learn  about  that. But  it  was  not  really  that  popular until  you  know  when computer  technology  becomes  more  available, more  popular,  more  commonly  used. Because  now  we  have  computers, we  can  use  the  computer  program  to  do pseudo  random  number  generation, and  then  you  can  because of  this  pedo  number  generation, we  think  of  it  as  being  able  to sample  from  a  uniform distribution,  and  from  that, this  technique  will  then  allow you  to  be  able  to  sample from  any complicated  distribution  that  you  want. That's  why  only  in starting  from  the  98  80s  onwards, this  technique  become  more  popular. In  fact,  1984,  German  and  German, came  up  with  a  specialized  version called  Git  Saclin. Git  Sanglin  is  actually a  special  version  of the  metropol  Hastings  algorithm, and  we'll  talk  about  that  also  later. And  Only  later  on  Galpon  and  Smith,  right? In  1990s  ready  made  this  MCMC  technique. Become  the  bedrock, the  foundational  technique that  everybody  uses. The  MCMC  actually  is in  terms  of  the  IDA  is  actually  risible, you  basically  make  use  of  the  thing called  a  stationary  distribution of  a  make  chain. Basically  the  IDA  actual overall  is  actually  risible. We  are  trying  to  sample  from  some  target PDF  P.  This  is  my  target  PDF. What  we  do  is  that  we  try  to  design a  make  chain  so that  the  sample  inside  this  make  chain, has  a  special  property. So  remember  from  last  week, not  from  last  week  from  three,  right? We  talked  about  Mk  chain. So  you  have  say  z  z  is your  first  random  variable  in your  mark  chain  and  then  you  have  Z  one, Z  two,  and  so,  right. And  the  property  of  the  macro  chain  is  that if  ID  say  z  one, then  z  two,  and z  zero  are  independent they  don't  depend  on  each  other. So  one  given  the  whole  pass, this  one,  z  two  only  depends  on  z  one, doesn't  depend  on  z  zero. That's  why  we  can  draw  the  arrow  in  this  way. If  I  can  design  a  marker  chain  in such  a  way  that  as  I  run  this  make  chain, run  it  for  a  long  long  time until  run  it  for a  long  long  time,  for  many  steps. Then  this  guy, the  distribution  approaches  to this  thing  called the  stationary  distribution. So  so  roughly  it  means  that  right the  all  the  samples  after  this will  be  approximately  all coming  from  the  same  distribution. And  then  if  that's  the  case, and  if  I  managed  to make  the  stationary  distribution exactly  equals  to my  target  distribution.  Right. Then  then I've  accomplished  my  objective,  right. So  I  just  run the  macro  chain  for  a long  time  until  at  some  point,  right. Everything  else  is  basically  similar to  your  stationary  distribution, which  is  equal  to  your  target  distribution, and  then  you  have achieved  your  objective,  right? Because  then  you  can  treat all  these  samples  as the  one  that  coming  from  your  target  PDF. Okay. So  then  of  course,  I  mean, the  way  I  describe  it  is quite  holistic  and  naturally, the  question  is  that  can this  even  be  done,  right? So  why  is  it  that Marcel  chain  will  convert to  a  stationary  distribution and  how  is  it  that  I  can  force the  stationary  distribution  to  be the  target  PDA  that you  are  trying  to  center  from. Okay.  So  these  are  the  questions that  we're  going  to  answer  next. Okay.  So  what  is  the  stationary  distribution. So  a  stationary  distribution.  Okay. So  let's  start  from  a  general  one  first, before  we  talk  about  stationary  distribution. So  again,  we  start  off with  a  macro  shine  X  zero,  x  one, x  two,  and  so  on, TOC  you  have  x  t  minus  one  x  t  and  so. Okay. So  In  general,  Let's say  the  distribution  at  x  t  minus one  is  the  distribution  is  given  by  Pi  t minus  one  of  x. This  basically  tells  you, what's  the  probability  that  x t  minus  one  is  equals to  this  particular  x  x  t  minus  one  equals. So  this  is  the  probability. Okay.  When  I  a  t  minus  one, I  go  to  t,  right. So  SC  can  also  take  values  from  one, two  up  to  say  of  six  sass  is  finite  is. In  general,  for  each  y  value. So  for  some  general  y  value out  of  these  states. In  order  to  transition  from  t  minus  one to  t.  So  in order  to  transition  from  here  to  here, there  are  many  possibilities. So  your  T  minus  one  can  be  equals  to  one, it  can  be  equals  to  two  and  so  on  up  to. Then  the  transition  probabilities are  If  it's  at  one, you  will  take  probability  t  one  to  y. This  is  your  transition  probability. If  it's  at  two,  you  will  have  probability, t  two  to  y,  and  so  on. To  y.  We  have all  these  transition  probabilities. Of  course,  the  The probability  that  x  t  minus  one, the  probability  s  d  minus one  is  equals  to  one  would be  exactly  given  by this  Pi  t  minus  one  of  one. Then  of  course,  the  probability that  x  t  minus  one  equals  to  two would  be  Pi  t  minus  one  of  two  and so  Pi  t  minus  one  of  m. You  can  see  that  if  I  know  Pi  t  minus  one, then  I  can  compute. What's  the  probability  that  t  equals  to  y. The  probability  of  x  t  equals  y. We  call  this  Pi  t  of  y. This  guy,  you  can  see  that  it's basic  probability  of  x  t  minus one  of  x  multiply by  the  transion  from  x  to  y, and  of  course,  you  sum  over  all  the  x. Okay.  Okay. So  you  can  see  that  from  S  t  minus  one, let's  assume  this  transition  is  always fix  this  transition  matric, this  transition  probability  is already  given  in  advance. We  cannot  change  that.  Okay. And  then  if  I  know  S  t  minus  one, I  can  use  the  transition  probability  to now  figure  out  what's  P  of  t. So  given  P  t  minus one  multiply  with  the  transitions, you  will  get  P  t. Okay. A  special  case  can  arise  when  my  Pi  t is  actually  independent  of t.  Doesn't  depend  on  the  time. This  guy  is  equals  to Pi  The  Pi  minus  one  is  also  equals  to  Pi. Is  the  same  distribution.  If  that  happens, we  say  that  this  Pi  is a  stationary  distribution. This  is  called  a  stationary  distribution. Stationary  distribution  is  basic. If  I  start  off  with  this  distribution, I  do  the  transition,  I aim  back  up  to  the  same  distribution. The  distribution  itself  doesn't  change. But  of  course  you  can  see  that in  general,  you  will  change. If  I  give  you  some  arbitrary  distribution, you  start  off  with  some  distribution, you  do  the  transition, you  most  likely  get something  that's  different  from what  you  started  off  with  right. But  in  some  special  cases, you  happen  to  choose  the  distribution that  you  start  off  with  very  carefully, you  do  the  transition, you  can  still  get  that  the  same  distribution. In  this  special  case, we  call  this  a  stationary  distribution. As  the  name  applies, stationary  means  in  vari it  doesn't  change  in  vary. The  distribution  itself,  after  you  do the  transition  it  still stays  the  same  distribution. Okay.  When  can  this  happen? So  if  my  transition  matric  looks  like  this, this  is  your  transition  matrix. So  this  is  your  transition  matrix. You  can  see  that  this  equation basically  corresponds  to  taking  Pi. So  that  as  Pi  is  a  row  v.  So  P  one,  p22  Pi. You  can  see  that  this  equation  corresponds  to Pi  dumps  the  transition  metrics is  going  to  be  exactly  equals  to  Pi. So  we  must  satisfy  this  equation. Of  course,  to  solve  for  the  Pi, we  basically  take  P of  t  minus  i  equals  to  zero. You  can  see  that  this  is  a  linear  system of  equation  inar  system. You  can  basically  solve solve  for  the  values  of  Pi. Okay. So  But  of  course, this  equation,  Pi  t equals  to  Pi  may  not  have  a  solution, may  not  always  exist  a  solution. When  can  we  find  a  solution? When  does  this  exist? This  system  of  equations  may  not  be  solvable. Under  what  situation  would  it  be  solvable? This  part  is  all  supplementary. One  of  the  condition  is  that your  macros  has  been  reducible, meaning  that  there's  a  positive probability  of  going  from one  state  to  any  other  state in  a  finite  number  of  steps. So  for  example,  I look  at  this  Marco  san,  right. So  the  arrow  means that  there  some  this  is  positive. If  no  arrow  means  is zero  probability  for  the  transition. So  from  one,  I can  positive  probability  go  to  two, two  can  go  to  three,  right? T  can  go  to  one.  So  starting  from  any  state, there's  always  positive  probability to  go  to  another  state. So  then  this  is  called  redu. In  this  case,  the  opposite  case is  a  reduc  case, so  you  can  see  that  Fn  here, one  cannot  go  to  tree  right  no  matter  what, one  can  only  go  to  two  can  go  to  one,  right. If  you  start  off  at  one,  you  will never  be  able  to  go  to  tree. There's  no  possible  probability  path. Then  it's  reducible. The  reducer  case,  you  can  imagine, right  this  basically  allow you  to  when  you  run  the  make  chain, because  there's  always  a  positive  probability to  go  to  any  other  state. It  means  that  right  intuitively, it  means  that  every  state  is  going to  be  visited  finitely  offered. So  if  I  start off  the  Muggle  chain  at  some  random  state, and  then  I  go  to  X  one, I  go  to  X  two,  and  so  I  run  this  make  chain, because  there's  always  a  positive  probability to  go  to  any  other  state  that  you  want. It  means  that  when you  run  this  micro  chain  long  enough, you  will  always  see  the state  that  you  desire, you  will  always  keep  appearing and  appearing  and  appearing. So  you  will  be  visited  infinitely  often. So  that's  one  good  thing. Okay.  So  that's  the  reducible. Another  condition  that  we need  is  that  it  has  to  be  positive  recurrent. So  we  cannot  wait forever  for  it  to  visit  the  desired  state. So  basically,  we  also  require that  starting  at  any  state  I, the  expected  time  to  come  back  to the  same  state  I  is  going  to  be  finite. Okay.  So  this  is  y. So  basically,  you  don't  have  to  wait for  infinite  amount  of time  on  average  in  order to  come  back  again  to the  same  state  that  you  started  off  with. So  then  it's  called  positive  recurrent. Equivalently,  this  condition means  that  the  amount  of  time, that  you  spend  in  every  state  is  going  to  be positive  as  the  length  of  a  chain  increases. On  average,  no  one  state  is  left  out.  Okay. We  can  do  that  one  example  here. You  can  see  this  is the  transition  metric  for part  for  this  three  state  mac  chin And  certainly,  you  can  check  that this  macros  is  irreducible, is  irreducible.  Okay. The  positive  recurrent  part  is not  so  easy  to  check  directly. So  you  have  to  trust  me  that this  is  positive  recurring. So  in  fact,  this  guy, you  can  find  a  stationary  distribution. In  fact,  you  don't even  have  to  check  all  the,  right. In  fact,  you  just  try  to  solve  this  equation. You  solve  this  system  of  equation, you  can  find  that  you  can  get  a  solution. So  if  you  can  get  a  solution. Above  this  so  called  valid  solution must  be  that  all  the  Pi Is  must  be  no  negative  because it's  supposed  to  be a  distribution  and  the  sum, The  sum  must  be  equal  to  one. Okay. So  S  the  solution, this  is  the  stationary distribution  that  we  are  looking  for. In  fact,  for  most of  our  purposes  for  this  class, since  we  are  assuming  finite  state, our  market  has  is  finite  state. The  number  of  states  is  finite. The  re  as  long  as  you  check  that  u, then  it's  always  going to  be  positive  recurrent. Which  means  that  for  finite  state,  mag  stain, you  on  to  make  sure  that  it's  re, then  you  will  always have  a  stationary  distribution. So  what's  so  nice about  this  stationary  distribution? Right. Okay. So  the  stationary  distribution  actually  has these  property  where  the if  I  run  the  Mako  shin  for  a  long  time, you  will  reach  a  steady  state. And  this  dady  state  is exactly  the  stationary  distribution. Meaning  what,  right. So  I  start  off with  with  some  distribution  P  zero,  right? So  this  is  a  zero. And  then  I  chose according  to  the  transition,  right. So  I  I  give  you  the  transition  property. I  choose  some  random  distribution  Pi  zero, and  then  I  use  the  transition probability  to  get  X  one, then  X  one  will  have this  probability  distribution,  right. Remember  how  to  compute  X  one, this  is  just  Pi  zero  times t.  And  then  I  from  X  one, I  again  do  the  transition  to  get  x  two, and  Pi  two  will  be  equals  to  Pi  one  times t  Pi  one  times  t. So  this  is  Pi  zero  t  squared. So  I  I  keep  running  this, when  I  reach  x  k, My  distribution  for  x  k  will be  Pi  zero  P  to  P  k. So  I  can  keep  doing  this. The  point  is  that  if if  I  get  let  K,  go  to  infinity. So  I  run  the  macro  chain  for  a  long  time. Under  some  situations,  M  Pi  K. The  distribution  of the  markov  random  variable  as  Knity. Under  some  situation,  it  will  converge. So  you  will  converge  to  some  distribution. And  if  it  does  converge, then  you  can  see  that  this  has  to  be exactly  equals  to the  stationary  distribution. This  pi  if  it  converge this  pi  is  stationary  distribution. If  I  run  the  markle  chain  for  a  long  time, e  converse  O  I'm not  saying  that  all  marcle  chain  will  convert So  converge  it  must convert  to  the  stationary  distribution. Okay.  So  then  the  next  question  is. So  now  we  have  two  things,  right. One  is, whether  stationary  distribution  exists, right? We  saw  it  must  be  reducible and  it  must  be  positive  recurrent. Then  the  second  thing  is, does  any  given  markel  chain converge  to  a  stationary  distribution. So  then  we  need additional  conditions  for  that. All  right.  Okay.  So  that's why  we  need  additional  condition. When  will  it  converge? Here.  So  first  of  all, it  must  be  reducible  and  costly  recurrent because  if  it  converts, it  must  be  the  stationary  distribution. If  it  doesn't  have  a  stationary  distribution, then  certainly  cannot  converge. So  we  must  satisfy the  condition  of stationary  distribution  first. For  e  to  converge,  you  need additional  one  additional condition  called  A  Porody. The  macro  chain  has  to  be  a  piodic. One  example  is  given  here. To  understand  what  a  periodic is  easier  to  understand  what  is  periodic. For  example,  I  have  a make  chain  with  only  two  states. So  I  have  positive  probability  going  1-2, and  then  I  have positive  probability  going  2-1. So  you  can  see  that  this  make chain  is  periodic  because  if  I  start  at  one, you  will  always  go  to two  with  probability  one. If  I  now  at  two,  you will  always  go  back  to  one,  right? So  you  will  always  this. So  you  will  osi  you will  oscate  between  two  states, which  is  No  one. This  is  called  PRLD. APOD  is  when  you don't  have  probability  exactly one  and  then  you  have  maybe this  kind  of  situation,  right? Then  this  will  become  APD,  AP. Okay.  So  if  we  need  for  it  to  converge, it  must  be  a  periodic  also. So  this  is  what  we  call  an  god  marcha. So  this  agudic  just means  that  the  distribution, your  macro  chain  distribution will  convert  to  a  stationary  distribution. So  that  is  called  an  godic  macro  chain. Okay.  So  in  this  course, we  are  going  to  basic  macro  chains that  are  always  ergodic. And  if  the  mark  sin is  agobi  then  you  see  that  it basically  satisfy  what  we are  trying  to  achieve. Remember  what  we  wanted  to  achieve, we  wanted  starting  from  some  z  zero. So  this  z  zero  can be  from  some  random  distribution, start  off  with  some  initial  distribution, you  run  the  mark  of  sin, get  z  one,  get  z  two,  and  so  on. And  if  it's  ago, that  means  if  I  reach  a  reach  let's  say, a  M  that  is  sufficiently  large. I  run  for  a  long  time. And  since  this  is  a  goody, I  know  that  this  guy  the  distribution  of  this this  Pi  is  going  to  be approximately  equal to  your  stationary  distribution  Pi. Of  course,  it  may  not  exactly be  the  stationary  distribution, but  it's  going  to  convert. Is  going  to  get  closer  and closer  to  the  stationary  distribution. So  the  z  n  plus  one  will also  be  approximately  distributed according  to  the  stationary  distribution  as So  according  to  what we  try  to  achieve,  right? That  means  if  I  choose  this n  to  be  large  enough, I  can  treat  all  these  samples, starting  from  here  onwards  to  be samples  that  are  approximately from  the  target  distrition. So  So  the  approximation can  be  as  close  as  you  want. So  basically,  you  just  have  to  choose  the  m to  be  as  to  be  as  large  as  you  want. So  this  is  called  the  burn  in  period. So  we  burn  in  everything. We  we  throw  away all  the  front  part  and only  after  sufficiently  large, then  I  take  the  samples  from  that. Then  the  samples  will  be approximately  from  your  target  description. Okay.  Okay.  So  then  the  question  is, you  can  see  that  this  this  is your  target  distribution is  definitely  going  to be  so  we  need this  target  distribution  to  satisfy P  P  so  Pi in  order  for  it  to be  the  stationary  distribution. So  now  I  want  to  how  to  design  how  to  design. How  to  design  the K.  So  this  is  my  target,  right. Pi  is  your  target. So  I  want  to  find  a  t a  transition  so  that right  Pi  t  equals  the  Pi. And  then  I  can  basically  and  of  course, I  need  to  ensure  that this  transition  is  irreducible. So  things  my  t  is  finite. So  I  just  need  to  check  that it's  irreducible,  right. And  I  also  need  to  make  sure  it's  ePodic, if  you  don't  have  this  osiation  going  on. Okay. So  how  to  ensure  that  right  so  it  turns  out that  I  just  solve  everything. It  turns  out  that  there's a  very  simple  way  to  ensure  that. To  ensure  that  we have  reducible  as  well  as  a  periodic. All  we  need  to  do  is  to  find  a  t. So  that  Pi  x  times  transition  from  x  to y  is  equals  to  Pi  transition  from  y  to  x. What  does  this  mean?  So  I  start  from  X. So  the  probably  mas  x  is  Pi  x, and  then  it's  transition  to  y. So  this  transition  y. So  the  transitioning  Y will  basically take  some  of  the  probability  mass, it  will  contribute  to the  probability  mass  at  Y. So  at  y,  you  have  the  Pi  Y. Okay.  And  because  it's  reducible, there  has  to  be  some  positive path  that  goes  back  to  X. So  so  that  say so  here  in  this  particular  case, we  require  that  there's  also a  transition  from  from  from  Y  back  to  X. So  from  y  back  to  x. So  this  t  y  to  x. Then  then  some  of the  probability  mass  over  here will  follow  this  transition  back  to  x. Now  we  require  that whatever  mass  that  goes  out  from  x  to  be balanced  to  be  equal  to  the  mass that  comes  back  to  x. Whatever  mass  that  probability  mass that  goes  from  X  to  Y is  balanced  by  the  probability  mass going  from  y  to  x. So  then  this  a reversible  reversible  or  balance  another  word for  is  called  balance  balance  macros. So  in  this  special  case,  of  course, this  is  a  very  special  kind  of  macro  chain. It  turns  out  that  in  this  special  case, you  can  check  that  if  this  is a  reversible  or  this  balance  equation  holds, then  you  can  see  that  if I  take  this  summation  over  here, I  can  change  it  to  now  become P  Y  and  t  t  of  y  x, then  the  Pi  Y  can  come  out  of  the  summation, and  then  now  you  have  a  summation  over the  transition  probabilities  and I'm  summing  over  x. This  will  be  exactly  equals  to  y. This  will  then  be  exactly  equals  to  Pi. You  can  see  that  what  we  have  done  here  is  to prove  that  this  guy  is  equals  to  Pi  y, which  is  the  condition  for  stationary. This  implies  P,  P  equals  to  Pi. So  if  I  can  find  a  T, that  is  reversible,  then  for  sure, I  know  that  Pi  t  was  the  Pi. Okay.  So  basically,  that's the  strategy  that  we're  going  to  do. So  we  are  trying  to center  from  a  target  distribution  Pi  x. We  are  going  to  design a  transition  prob,  this  T  XY, such  that  the  make  chain is  reversible  and  APRD. We  will  try  to  find  a  TY  so that  this  make  chain  is  reversible  and  APRD. And  then  that  will  mean  that this  X  will  be  a  stationary  distribution, right  so  then  we have  to  achieve  our  objective. Once  we  have  done  that,  we  will  just  run the  mace  train  using the  t  that  we  have  come  up  with. Just  choose  the  next  sample, choose  the  next  sample,  choose  a  next  sample, and  so  on,  and starting  from  some  random  starting  point, doesn't  even  have  to  be  from  tie. So  random  starting  point, you  just  keep  choosing the  next  sample  and the  run  it  for  a  long  time. According  to  the  math, we  will  have  that the  distribution  of  z  n  where n  is  very  large  will  be approximately  equals  to the  stationary  distribution. And  this  z  n  will be  exactly  what  we're  looking  for,  right? We're  trying  to  sample  from the  stationary  distribution. The  target  distriion  is the  stationary  distriion. This  is  a  whole  basis  of  CMC. Okay.  So  let's  see  how  exactly. So  that's  the  idea  behind  it  and what  exactly  Metropolis  Hastings, right  in  order  to  design this  reversible  marco  chain. Okay. So  this  is  the  famous Metropolis  Hastings  algorithm. Okay.  So  we  want to  saner  from  a  target  disution. So  this  is  my  target  PDF. And  this  is  very  h  sample  from. For  example,  your  x is  a  high  dimensional  vector. So  say  1,000  dimension. So  it's  very  ht  sample  from. Here  we  assume  we  can  compute some  normalized  version. Again,  we  don't  need the  P.  We  don't  need  the  exact  PDF. We  just  need  the  normalized  version. Okay.  And  then  we  are  going  to  choose a  transition  probability  called  Q  x  y. So  this  is  basically a  conditional  probability. This  means  that  given  x, what  is  the  probability  to  go  to  y? So  we  can  also  write  in  this  way  Q  y  given  x. And  the  point  is  that  this has  to  be  easy  to  sample  from. For  example,  I  can  choose a  uniform  distribution. A  uniform  distribution,  you know  how  to  sample  from  uniform. Even  if  it's  high  dimensional, I  choose  a  basically high  dimensional  uniform  distribution  where every  dimension  is  independent  and  I  just sample  each  dimension independently,  using  the  uniform. Okay.  So  there's  something that's  easy  to  sample  from. We  didn't  discuss  in  detail like  how  to  sample from  a  gaussian  distribution, but  turns  out  that  Dalcen is  also  easy  to  sample  from. So  there's  a  standard  procedure to  sample  from  a  multi varied  gucian  distribution. In  fact,  you  can  also  use,  I  mean, there's  procedures that  are  already  incremented, how  to  sample  from  multi  varied  galcan even  if  it's  high  dimension. There  are  a  lot  of  this  kind of  distribution  that  we  choose  from,  right? The  proposal  distribution. So  this  is  also called  a  proposal  distribution. Same  as  what  the  same  name  as we  use  in  the  rejection send  pring  important  sendrin, we  always  have  this  proposal  distribution, and  the  key  point  about proposal  distribution  is  that it's  something  easy  to  sample  from. Okay.  So  assume  that  we  have  this. So  what  we  have  to  do  is  that  Okay. I'm  going  to  start  off  with  some  z  zero. So  I  can  sample  z  zero  from  some  for  example, some  random  initialization,  it  doesn't matter  random  initialization  point. Then  k. Imagine  I  run  this  procedure  for  a  long  time. So  let's  say  now  I'm  at  z  minus. And  every  step  is  going  to  be  the  same. That's  why  I'm  going  to  do  at a  general  case  n  minus  one. Now  I'm  at  z  minus  one. Let's  call  this  x.  Let's  call  this  x. Then  from  this  x, I'm  going  to  use  the  proposal  distribution to  sample  y. I  use  Q  of  x  y. This  is  a  conditional  distion,  y  given  x. So  now  I'm  at  X.  I'm at  S  Y  is  the  condition,  right. So  I'm  at  X.  I'm  going  to  choose the  Y  according to  this  conditional  distribution. Or  you  can  think  of  it  as  transition  as  well. Now  I'm  at  X.  I'm  going to  choose  the  y  according to  the  transition  probab. Okay.  So  this  Y  is  something  random,  right? Is  going  to  come  from  this  e.  Okay. And  then  this  y,  based on  the  y  that  I  have  chosen, I'm  going  to  compute  this acceptance  probability. So  acceptance  probability  A  x  y. So  it's  given  by  this  expression  here. So  this  is  a  very  important  expression, is  minimum  of  this  guy. Pi  tutor  is  the  unnormalized target  normalized  target. Is  exact  copy. Okay.  So  anyway,  so  you  need  to  complete this  ratio  and  why  we take  the  minimum  with  an,  right? Because  we  are  going  to  treat this  as  a  probability. So  if  this  sy  is  bigger  than  one, is  not  a  probability  anymore,  right? So  then  we  will  take the  cut  it  off  at  one,  right. So  we  will  take  the  minimum between  one  and  this  s. Cure  this  side  because  this  is  a  probability, all  these  are  probabilities or  a  normalized  version  of  probability, of  course  that  will  be  bigger  or  equis  zero. I  don't  need  to  cat  whether it  becomes  less  than  zero. For  sure  it  will  be  bigger  or  equal  zero, is  that  sometimes  it  can  be more  than  one  I  more  than  one then  I  take  minimum  with  one so  that  it  becomes  a  probability. What's  the  point  of computing  this  probability, then  I'm  going  to  do  accept  or  reject  Okay. So  I  I  reject. So  I'm  going  to  accept  or  reject with  by  flipping  a  coin according  to  this  probability. So  different  from  the  rejection  sampling, right  I  basically  do  at  the  sample, whether  it  is  less  than  something,  right? But  in  this  case, it  based  on  this  probability. Oh,  vend  D  based on  this  probability  for  double  D  probab  0.8, then  I  just  flick  a  bias  point,  right? We  probably  d  0.8,  I'm  going  to  accept. We  probably  0.2,  I'm  going  to  reject. So  reject  according  to  this  probability. So  at  a  set with  probably  D  A  x  y,  and  of  course, you're  going  to  reject  with  with probably  one  minus  one. Okay.  So  it's  totally  random,  right? Just  based  on  this  probability, I  will  just  randomly  accept  or  reject, right  according  to  the  probability. So  if  it's  accepted  if  it's  accepted, then  If  it's  accepted, then  then  of  course, I  will  then  let  z  to  b  equals  y. So  we  started  from  z  n  minus  one. If  it's  accepted,  I  will  let  z  m  equals  y. If  it's  rejected,  then  I'll  stay  as  E,  right. So  my  z  will  stay  as  z  minus  one. The  same  sample,  right?  I  don't  move. Okay. So  basically,  tori  basic, if  you  look  at  this  picture. Now  I'm  at  z  n  minus  one. And  then  according  to my  proposal  distribution, imagine  that  this  is  the conto  the  probability  conto, the  PDF  of  your  proposal  distribution. So  maybe  you  choose  a  y, right,  you  randomly  choose  a  y  here. And  then  once  you  choose  a  y, you  compute  this  probability, see  whether  to  accept  or  not. So  you  compute  this  probability, then  you  toss  a  coin, according  to  this  probability, and  then  see  you  whether  you  accept  or  not. So  with  the  as  if  the  coin  is  h, then  you  accept  it,  it  retails, then  you  will  reject  and the  probability  of  getting its  is  given  by  this. So  then  you  decide  to  accept  or  not. If  you  accept,  then  your, then  this  part  will  now  go  to  here. If  you  don't  accept,  If  you  reject, then  you  will  stay  here. You  will  stay  here  and  then  you  repeat the  process  again  from  the  next  step,  right? Okay. And  because  it's  random  at  some  point,  right? Because  it's  random  at  some  point, you  will  definitely move,  right?  You  will  move. Okay.  But  it  just  depends  on  how  long  you need  to  stay  here  until we  reach  a  point  where  you  can  move. Okay.  So  summary.  First  of  all, notice  that  this  is  indeed a  make  chain  because  you  are z  right  at  each  step. It  only  depends  on  the  value of  z  m  minus  one,  right? Because  you  see  at  each  of  the  step, z  M  minus  one  to  find  a  y  it  only depends  on  z  minus  one  on  the  x  value. It  doesn't  depend  on anything  that  comes  before  it. Because  your  proposal  description is  only  depends  on  x. So  starting  from  X, what's  the  probability  of getting  a  particular  Y. So  this  is  indeed  a  make  chain. Okay.  So  it's  a  Machen. Yeah.  So  very  important. Similar  to  rejection  and  important  centering, we  need  to  know  the  normalized  version. And  then  yeah, and  the  proposal  distribution to  shooe  something  that's easy  to  senter  from. Okay.  So  the  range  is  this  methods  strange. So  why  does  it  work?  Right? So  basically,  so  the  proof is  actually  right  simple. Yeah,  and  it's  supplementary  also. So  basically,  you  see that  this  is  a  Mark  Sheng, right  we  have  designed  Mark  Shen. The  marker  chain  is  based  on a  proposal  distribution  as well  as  on  a  acceptance  probability. So  this  is  in  a  mark  shape,  right? And  we  just  have  to then  make  sure  that this  transition  probability  of this  particular  marker  chain  is  gives you  a  reversible  marker  chain  and  moreover, the  P  the  PDF, your  target  PDF  is the  standard  the  stationary distribution  of  this  marker  shape. That's  all  we  need  to  verify. Okay.  So  that's  why  you  verify. So  that  P  X  Y  to  be the  transition  probability  of this  marker  sap  that  were  designed. So  first  of  all,  we  are  going to  show  that  it's  reversible, with  respect  to  Pi. Once  we  show  that  it's  reversible, with  respect  to  Pi, that  means  we  know  that  this  Pi  is the  stationary  distribution, and  then  we  are  done. So  to  prove  that  it's  reversible, all  I  need  to  do  is  to prove  that  this  Pi  x  times P  x  y  equals  to  Pi  y  times  t  y  x. This  is  the  definition  of  reversible. Starting  from  here.  What  is  T  X? T  X  Y  is  basically  how  to  get  the  Y. I  sample  from  this  proposal  distribution. I  give  you  the  X.  I sample  the  y  from  this  proposal  distribution, so  it's  given  by  Q  X  Y, but  I  don't  always  accept. So  I  will  accept  it  only with  probability  A  X  Y. To  get  this  particular  Y, to  get  the  transition  from this  ax  to  this  particular  y, I  not  only  have  to  center  it, but  also  accept  it. So  that's  how  you  get  this. Okay. Now  you  just  have  to  plug  in  everything. This  is  your  A  X  Y. You  plug  in  everything.  So  you can  bring  this  inside. So  this  will  cancel  out  with  this. And  of  course,  this  one  multiplied  by  one. Basically,  we  bring  everything  inside. We  bring  everything  inside  the  minimum. This  one  will  cancel  with  this  one. The  first  term  is  the  one you  bring  inside,  multiplied  by  one, and  then  this  one  multiply to  this  side  will  cancel  out. We  are  left  with  the  numerator.  Okay. Okay.  So  from  here,  then  we just  take  out  this  guy  instead,  right? So  we  are  going  to  bring  out  this  guy. So  this  becomes  the  fraction  over here  and  this  becomes  the  one  over  here. And  we  will  do  at  you  stay at  this  long  enough,  right. You  look  at  this  guy. This  is  exactly  A  y  x. This  one  is  A  x  y. So  those  are  true. But  because  how  metropolis  and  tasting  design this  acceptance  probit  in such  a  nice  way  that  you  get  exactly  A  Y  X, and  this  A  Y  X  times  this x  is  going  to  be  the  T  Y  X. That's  why  it's  reversible  and your  P  is  the  stationary  distribution. Okay.  So  that's the  nice  thing  about  this,  right. So  Yeah. So  we  really  have  to  to  give  the  credit  to Metropolis  who  first  came  out with  a  simplified  version  of  this. Yeah,  I  don't  I  don't  remember. Form,  but  then  tine  is  going slightly  generalize  it  so that  it  becomes  more  general. I  think  we  will  see the  metro  pods  form  later. Okay.  So  all  right. So  this  prove  basic  prove that  since  it's  reversible, we  know  that  reversible  is  always  reversible, costly  recurring,  and  then and  because  the  proposal distribution  we're  chosen,  right. So  okay.  So  this  we just  make  sure  that our  proposal  distribution,  right, is  chosen  in  such  a  way  that  there's  always costly  probability  of  going  to every  state  in  your  state  state. So  we  don't  want  to  choose  something that  is  limited  to  something Up  to  certain  states  and then  it  may  cause  the  APOE  problem. With  f  c  so  that the  Y  is  from  some  continuous  space. If  that's  the  case,  then according  to  our  theory,  reversible, is  the  Pi,  is  your  stationary  distribution, then  we  know  that. Your  Z  n  is  going  to  converge, the  distribution  of  Zn is  going  to  convert  to  Pi, and  this  is  exactly the  target distribution  that  we're  looking  for. Basically,  to  achieve  this  ay, we  just  choose  this  side to  be  always  positive. Okay.  So  you  can  see  from  the  proof,  right? This  marking  is  designed  to convert  to  the  stationary  distribution. So  by  design,  may it  converts  to  the  dationar  distribution. So  which  means  that,  if I  choose  a  very  big  n. And  then  I  take  ZM  when  n  is  very  large, then  this  M  right  can  be  viewed as  approximate  samples from  the  target  distribution. Okay.  So  maybe  one  thing that  is  different  from  last  week. We  can  get  exact  sample. So  rejection  ser  okay,  the  standard  distion. The  rejection  sel, the  the  rejection  sering important  sampling  to  compute. Sorry,  important  sel  is  not  okay. So  standard  distion  and rejection  centering  will  give  you,  right? The  exact  So  using  the  standard, standard  distriion,  and the  rejection  sampling. This  will  give  you  samples  that  are  exactly, exactly  from  your  target  distribution. But  your  important  sampling, important  sent  bring  or  SIR,  also. You  remember  because  we  need  to make  use  of  the  stronger  or  large  numbers, you  will  only  be  approximate  approximate. So  you  will  be  approximate to  give  you  the  approximate from  the  target  distribution. And  of  co  today,  these  are  also  approximate. So  MCMC.  This  will give  you  approximate  samples. But  of  course,  if  we  do  it, if  you  take  the  burning to  be  sufficiently  large, very  large,  this  approximation can  be  controlled  to  be  as  small  as  you  want. Okay. The  typical  burning  that  we're  going  to  do typically  to  be  at  least 1,000  or  up  to  5,000  sales. This  is  okay  because  you  can  see  that this  makion  is  actually very  easy  to  implement. It  is  actually  very  efficient,  very  fast. Even  if  you  take  5,000  samples, it's  not  going  to  take  you  a  long  time. You  can  generate  5,000  samples  very  easy. Okay.  So  there's  some  examples  of  the  queue. Remember  we  need  the  Q  x  y. So  what  are  some  possible  choices of  your  proposal  description? The  first  one  is  the  so  called  random  walk, metropolis  Hsing. Here  your  queue  is basically  a  function  of  y  minus  x. In  general,  in  general,  your  Q  X, Y,  basically  is  a  conditional  distribution depends  on  the  value  of  x. But  in  this  case,  he has  very  symmetric  properties. So  it's  only  going  to depend  on  the  difference  between  x  and  y. For  example,  your  gauian  distribution. So  if  now  I'm  X, I  just  do  a  gaucan  distribution  around  x. So  then  how  you  sample  the  y,  right? I  only  depends  on  how  far  where your  your  y  is  to  the  X. So  if  I  give  you if  I  give  you  another  x  and  x. This  galcin  distribution  is exactly  the  same,  right? I  just  the  center  of the  gusting  distribution  shift right  to  a  different  x. But  the  conto  s,  the  distribution itself  is  exactly  the  same, then  you  sample  from  here, which  you  chose,  which you  choose  will  only  depend  on  how  far  away, the  y  is  from  the  x. So  that's  why  only dependent  on  the  difference  between  y  and  x. So  One  example  is  a  gucing,  right. Another  one  is  again  your  uniform, So  here  your  x.  I  just  take a  high  dimensional  cube  high  dimensional  cube around  x  and  then  I'm  going  to  sample randomly  inside  this  high  dimensional  cube. In  this  case,  you  can  see  that  because my  Q  x  y  is  equals  to  just  Q  y  minus  x. You  can  see  that  in  this  example,  in  fact, is  actually  equals  to the  the  distance  y  minus  x. So  it  only  depends  on  the  distance in  these  two  examples. Then  in  this  case, you  can  see  that  it's  basically  the same  as  Q  y  x. So  it's  symmetric  in  x  and  y. If  that's  the  case,  if  you  do  have the  acceptance  prop  y  x and  x  y,  they  will  cancel  out. So  then  you  will  just  get a  basic  in  terms  of the  ratio  of  the  target  PDF. Okay.  So  this  is  called  the metropolis  algorithm. So  Metropolis  first  came  out  of  this, he  doesn't  have  this  guy. Basically  in  his  proposal, right  he  is  always  of  this  form, is  basically  this  form. So  that's  why  the  acceptance  probs. So  then  he  didn't  make  it  more general  right  with  a  more  general  queue. Okay.  Yeah.  But  we know  that  this  will  always  work, but  there  and  bad  choices. So  we  need  to  make  sure  that  we have  enough  variants  to explore  the  state  space, because  we  are  trying  to  sample, trying  to  sample  from this  high  dimensional  distribution. We  want  to  make  sure  that  when  we  sample, we  sample  so  that  all those  points  that  has  positive  probability, we  at  let  be  able  to sample  proportionally  from  all  these  points. I  your  variance  is  too  small. Then  going  through  the  whole sta  space  may  be  very  slow. But  on  the  other  hand, if  your  variance  is  too  large, then  because  of  this  acceptance  probability, your  variance  is  very  large, then  you  may  find  that  your  acceptance probability  is  very  low, you  will  not  be  able  to  proceed. Because  if  your  variance  large, you  will  choose  there's a  higher  chance  of  choosing  a  y, very  far  away  and  why  that  is  very  far  away, will  have  lower  acceptance  probability, then  you  don't  accept, you  have  to  stay  at  the  same place  for  a  long  long  time. Until  at  some  point,  you're  lucky you  manage  to  move  to  a  new  Y. Let's  see  one  example  of  this. Okay.  We'll  see  an  example  of  this  later. Okay. We'll  see  an  example  of  this. Yeah.  How  to  chow the  variance  will  come to  that  using  an  example. Okay.  Before  we  do  that, let's  continue  with  what the  possible  proposal  distribution. Another  easy  one  is to  choose  something  that  doesn't  depend  on. So  this  is  a  bit  of  a  strange  choice. But  in  some  situations,  this  can  work  also. So  this  is  called  the  independence  chain. So  basically,  now  I'm  ads,  but  I  choose  a  y. So  the  ad  is  inside  some  state  space. Okay.  I  choose  the  Y independently  or  doesn't  don't  care  about  X, I  choose  any  Y  according to  some  crib  distribution over  the  whole  space. So  you  can  imagine  that it's  not  going  to  work  well  unless whatever  you  choose  is  already very  close  to  your  target  PDF. Otherwise  it's  not  going  to  work  well. But  in  general,  you basically  has  to  try  to approximate  the  target  one  b. We  can  I  mean,  that's  the  whole  point. The  target  one  is  hard  to  center  from. There's  one  y  that's  easy  to  center  for. So  usually  will  choose  something  that  is more  heavy  tail  than  the  target  one. Quite  similar  to  the  rejection  center, we  are  trying  to  choose  y  that  covers the  tail  of  your  target  distribution. But  I  do  say  this  one  is  not so  frequently  used  only in  some  special  cases. Okay.  Another  thing  that people  have  tried  to use  is  to  try  to  do  a  special  properties. If  your  target  distribution has  some  special  properties. So  for  example,  it can  be  written  in  this  form. I  can  decompose  into  two  parts. When  you  have  this  per  six  and H  of  x  can  be  written as  a  product  of  these  two  functions, and  then  this  HX  is  actually  a  PDF  as  well. Then  one  way  is  to  center  from  using  the  HX. So  basically  using  this  guy. So  I  use  the  He. Forget  about  the  x,  use this  as  the  proposal  distribution. Of  course,  we  need  this  per side  x  to  be  a  bounded  function  as  well. In  this  case,  if  you  substitute into  the  acceptance  qua can  see  everything  set  out, then  it  just  depends  on the  ratio  of  this  per  side. This  is  one  technique  that  people  have  tried. But  to  say  the  most  common  way  is  to use  this  how  we talk  about  the  random  random  walk  approach, where  you  basically  use  the  gals  or  uniform. That  would  be  the  most  common  way. Let's  look  at  that. Fy  some  questions? Okay. Okay. I  think  most  people.  So  busy, I  need  to  find  this  equation,  right? So  of  co  you  can  take t  minus  and  then  solve  for  the  solution. So.  If  you  remember  this  guy, this  pi  is  basically  the  o  envector, correspond  to  the  zero  e  value  of this  t  minus  Pi  is  vector. This  is  the  best  task  to  use your  AI  to  solve instead  of  trying  to  solve  yourself. But  of  course  as  a  practice,  do  that. Smarter  way  to  do  this  is  if. Whether  this  is  true  or  not. Substitute  everything  if  I made  it  and  see  that  this  is  a  right  answer. Because  all  the  columns, right  will  add  up  to one  right  then  add  up  to  one. So  this  has  to  be  the  right  answer. Okay.  So  don't  always  depend  on  AI  right. You  can  see  the  surface like  within  5  seconds,  right. Okay.  Okay,  next. Okay. Yeah.  Now  here,  you  can compute  Pi,  the  target  PD. Although  in  the  lecture  notes, we  have  Piu  unnormalized  version, but  of  course, when  you  multiply  any  constant  on top  and  same  constant  on  bottom, the  ratio  will  still  be  the  same. This  will  definitely  mean normalized  one  will  also  fat  normalized  we, you  can  also  be  as the  normalization  constant  being  one, is  a  very  special  normalized  version. This  will  definitely  work  right. Okay.  That's  fine. Okay. So  if  you  look  at  the  first  one  over  here. So  if  you  look  at  this  distribution, there's  no  ads  at  all,  right? The  x  doesn't  appear  at all  inside  this  distribution. Okay.  So  we  are  sembling the  independently  of  the  ads. So  that  is  independent,  right. Is  independent  of  ads. This  one  then  this  one has  to  be  the  random  w.  Previously, we  say  that  y  minus  is  normal  Sigma. This  is  actually  the  same  as  y  is normal  with  mean  x  and  then  covalent  Sigma. They  are  actually  equivalent  to each  other.  These  two  are  equivalent. Okay.  This  one  is  the  random  w.  Okay. Let's  take  a  short  break  here. We  come  back  at  8:40. Yeah.  From  the  previous  class  in  this  class, we  have  learned  how  to  sample. Yes.  But  no  matter  which  sample  is  we  choose prior  sampling  is  not a  general  we  sample  of  any  distribution. Oh,  yes.  But  this  one  we must  choose  one  is  tribuion  for  this  one because  the  tiered  tiered  p  and the  tiered  pie  we  need the  likelyhood  times  pi? No.  So  the  pi. Yes.  Yes. I  need  to  calculate  the tiered  one  so  we  can  get  the  real  one. The  tiered  pi  tiered  pi  pi. Yes,  I  check  the  materials  and said  we  need  a  p  times this  one  to  this  one  to  get  a  tiered  one? Is  it  right?  Yes.  Okay.  So  this  is  the  iz. By  this,  this  will  be  the  this  one we  can  only  choose  by  ourselves this  p  your  application, different  application  you  use  differ. So  your  application  the  problem  depends  on. And  this  is  only  one  example,  right? This  Pi  does  not  have  to  do  this. May  not  have  a  per  or  things  like this  depends  on  your  application. Okay.  Let's  go  at  this  example  here. You  can  see  that  here we  are  trying  to center  from  this  distribution, and  this  is  really a  very  complicated  distribution,  right? There's  exponential. There  is  a  s  here, there's  a  sign  over  here. There's  no  way  you  can  find the  CDF  and  try  to  tas  CDF. Okay.  So  this  is a  very  ger  very  complicated  distion  that  you cannot  d  c  from  M.  This  guy It's  not  normalized. We  haven't  divided  by the  normalization  constant. You  go  and  integrate  this. It's  not  going  to  be  equals  to  one. I'll  be  some  positive  value  and then  we  need  to  divide  by  the  value, but  to  integrate  this is  going  to  be  very  difficult. We  want  to  work with  the  unnormalized  version. We  are  going  to  use a  Dalian  transition  proposal  distribution. So  your  Q  X  Y, this  is  a  random  walk  gucian. So  basically  given  x  given  x. The  mean  is  taking a  galcan  center  X  with  some  variant. And  of  course,  you  can see  that  it's  symmetric. So,  this  is  exactly  the  random  w  proposal. So  your  acceptance  probability is  equals  to  this. Then  we  are  going  to  follow  the  MH  algorithm. At  each  step,  if you  are  at  M.  This  is  your  at. You  are  going  to  sample the  y  from  the  gaussian. Okay.  And  then  you  are  going  to  compute  Es  y. This  are  a  number,  is  a  probably. Exactly,  how  do  we  toss a  coin  to  determine  to  accept  or  not. So  basically  we  come out  with  a  sample  from  the  uniform,  right. So  we  are  going  to  say  that  this  guy,  this, that  we  sample  from  is  smaller than  this  A  that  we  compute, then  we  accept  because  this  will have  exactly  probab  D  equals  to  A. Your  uniform  distribution,  01  right? So  if  I  have  a  I  have  a  t  over  here,  right, the  area  under  here  is  exactly equals  the  t.  So  if  I so  that  means  that  probability falling  within  zero  to t  is  exactly  equals  the  tn. Okay.  So  Yeah. T  so  called  toss  the  coin with  bias  equals  to  A  is the  same  as  taking  a  uniform  distribution. You  sample  U  from the  uniform  distribution  and  see  whether this  U  is  less  than A  than  your  desired  property. Is  less,  we  will  at  more  than  A,  we  will. The  important  thing  here  is  the  square. How  do  we  choose  this  square? You  can  see  this  is the  actual  settling  that  is  done. So  this  is  this  part, the  horizontal  ***  is the  state  space  is  basically the  possible  values  of one  of  your  distribution. So  that  is  from  minus  infinity  to  infinity, but  here  because  when  it goes  to  very  small  or  very  large, it  has  zero  probilty. And  this  is  the  actual  distribution. This  guy  is  the  real  PDF. Okay.  So  you  can  see  that if  I  choose  go  to  one. What  is  this  trajectory  telling you  this  trajectory  is  basically, is  the  each  time  step,  I'm  choosing. I  have  a  certain  p  and  then  I  choose  a  y, if  the  y  is  accepted, will  you  will  go  to  the  next  one. And  then  from  here, I  choose  another  why  is  accepted, you  go  to  the  next  one  and  so  on, right  that's  how  to  form  a  trajectory. If  if  I'm  here  and  the  Y  is  not  accepted, then  you  can  see  that  it's  the  same,  right. So  that's  how  you  get  all these  straight  vertical  lines,  right. So  if  I'm  here  is  not  accepted, so  you  can  see  okay. So  here,  this  is  a  time  set. So  the  next  time  is  not  accepted, right,  you  will  still  stay  here. The  next  time  is  not  accepted, you  still  stay  here,  right. So  you  can  see  that  this  guy  has been  staying  here  for  quite  a  long  time. Here  at  some  point,  right,  it goes  to  a  different  Y. So  that's  how  the  strategy  is f.  Me  goes  to  one, you  may  see  that  it's  quite  good. Basically,  the  trajectory  covers most  of  the  space  that  we  want. So  if  you  look  at  the  histogram, you  may  see  the  histogram approximates  the  real  distribution, the  rear  PDF  part grap  Whereas  if  I choose  a  Sigma  that's  too  small,  0.1. W  d  is  0.1. Okay.  Here,  this  is  the  acceptance  rate. So  out  of  all  these  centers, around  55.3%  are  accepted. If  I  choose  Sigma  goes  to  0.1, the  acceptance  rate actually  becomes  very  high, 91%  91.6%, but  that  if  I  start  the  sample  from  here, because  the  Sigma  is  so  low, it's  going  to  move  only  deer. Remember  we  are  using  a  Dusan,  right? The  Dalian  the  Dalc  W is  controlled  by  Sigma,  right. The  standard  division  in  Sigma. So  if  your  Sigma  is  very  small, is  going  to  look  like  this,  if your  Sigma  is  very  large, it's  going  to  be  very  flat,  right. So  if  your  Sigma  is  very  small, all  your  centers  are  going  to  be very  close  to  your  starting  point. Okay.  So  then  you are  going  to  only  move  very  little  and move  right  and your  acceptance  will  be  very  high. Acceptance  will  be  very  high  and every  time  you  accept  you  only  move  litle. It  turns  out  that  you  see  down  here, we  are  sapling  2000  centers. All  the  centers  are falling  within  this  region. You  never  reach  this  other  region. Your  histogram  is  only able  to  capture  this  region. This  is  a  back  pay  it  doesn't  explore  enough, doesn't  go  up  from  here. This  is  a  poor  approximation  of  the  PDF. On  the  other  hand, if  your  sigma  is  very  large. You  variance  is  very  large. Here,  you  have  this  situation  flat  comes  in, that  means  this  is  my. You  have  a  very  high  probability  of getting  a  y  that's  further  away  from. Each  time  it  is  accepted, you  can  see  there's  a  big  move right  down  here, this  is  my,  my  y  is  here, and  this  one  happens  to  be  accepted, then  it's  going  to  move  very  far  away. The  good  thing  having big  move  is  that  you  can basically  go  to  the  whole  region  very  fast, can  get  samples  very fast  across the  whole  region,  but  you  can  see  that. The  bad  thing  is  that  the  acceptance rate  is  only  1.2%. You  can  see  a  lot  of  these vertical  lines  and  you basically  stay  here,  is  not  accepted. You  just  continue  here,  continue  here. Until  at  some  point  you get  accepted  then  you  move. The  acceptance  rate  will  be  very low  and  the  number  of  samples you  have  will  be  very  low. So  we  can  see  that  the  approximation  in terms  of  the  histogram is  actually  also  very  poor. So  basically, the  takeaway  is  that  we  need  to  choose Sigma  appropriate  e.  So cannot  be  too  small,  cannot  be  too  big. We  want  something  that  is  somewhere  in the  middle  with  a  suitable  acceptance  rate. So  in  summary,  the  lesson to  then  is  to  use appropriate  Sigma  too  small. I'll  be  slow  conversion. It  takes  a  long  time  to  explore the  whole  space  and your  acceptance  rate  is  too  high. It  will  basically  just  keep within  a  small  region. If  it's  too  large,  will  take  very  big  steps. But  then  your  acceptance rate  will  become  very  low, then  you  may  get  stuck  for  a  long  time. But  once  it's  accepted, you  will  move  a  big  step  to  another  place. But  then  you  may get  stuck  for  a  long  time  and then  you  will  have  to wait  many  samples  before  you  get  accepted. Yeah.  How  to  choose  there's no  rigorous  way  to  do  it. So  it's  basically  based  on  rules  of  m. We  are  random  pH. Usually  we  are  trying  to  target a  acceptance  rate  of  around  25%  to  50%. Then  for  the  independence  one, we  actually  want  the  acceptance will  be  close  to  one. Remember the  independence  one  doesn't  depend  on. So  we  want  to  choose a  proposal  that  is  already  quite  close. In  some  ways  can  approximate your  target  PDF,  right? So  if  that's  the  case, you  can  really  approximate  the  target  PDF, then  of  course,  you  want  to accept  as  many  samples  as  possible. But  in  general,  this  is a  more  common  approach  the  page. So  we  choose  a  Sigma  in  such  a  way that  is  around  more  than  25%, hopefully  close  to  slightly  more  than  50%. Okay. And  then  we  have  the  burning,  right? So  remember  your  MCMC  onwards  on  this this  fact  that  the  distribution is  going  to  convert to  the  target  distribution. The  stationary  distribution is  the  target  distribution. But  the  conversions  will  only  happen  right after  you  take  steps. So  the  burning  is  to  throw away  the  centers  from  the  initial  period, that  is  not  close  to  the  target  distribution. But  then  the  question  is  like  how  to  choose, how  many  samples  to  throw. For  example,  you  can let's  say  I'm  trying  to  center from  this  uniform  distribution. Of  course,  this  is  just  a  toy  example. We  know  how  to  center from  uniform  very  easily. But  let's  say,  I'm  trying  to  use  MCMC  to center  from  a  discrete  uniform  distribution, Uniform  over  zero  to  20. So  if  I  choose  my  initial starting  from  S  equals to  S  zero  equals  to  ten. This  is  my  initial  description. It  is  all  the  property  masses  here. Okay  then  I  run  the  MCMC.  You  can  see  that. Each  step  is  going  to  get  closer and  closer  to  the  final  uniform  distribution, but  it  doesn't  converge  very  fast. Here,  this  is  se  This  is  400. I  need  to  take  almost  more  than  400  samples before  I  get  something close  to  the  uniform  distribution. So  your  burn  in  period here  has  to  be  at  least  400,  right. So  at  least  you  can  see if  I  start  from  17,  right? This  is  the  original  distribution  again, even  at  this  is. This  is  200  even  at  200, it's  not  really  close  to  the  uniform. Only  at  400,  then you  get  close  to  the  uniform. So  in  this  single  example, you  need  at  least  400  steps. Before  he  has  forgotten his  initial  starting  point. So  you  want  it  to  convert  to  the  stationary. So  Different  distributions  can require  different  number  of  steps. But  again,  this  rule  of time  it's  not  so easy  to  diagnose  when  the  chain  has  burning. We  usually  try  to  be  more  cautious. We  usually  just  take  at  least 1,000  samples  or  more  than  1,000  samples. That's  true  with  the  first  1,000 samples  and  then  use  the  rest,  ok? Yeah.  This  is  also because  it's  actually  very  easy  to sample  from  here your  proposal  distribution  as long  as  you  choose  it  correctly, is  actually  very  easy. Throwing  away  1,000  samples  is  not  an  issue. Another  technique  that  people usually  use  is  called  ting. This  is  to  break  the  dependence between  draws  in  the  back  of  s.  Remember, we  are  basically  doing  say  one, so  on  until  at  some  point that's  a  n  plus  one. N  plus  two,  so  after  the  burning  period, we  want  to  take  all  these  samples as  approximately  from  my  target  description. But  of  course,  we  can  see that  this  is  a  market  shape. They  are  not  going  to  be  independent, Sn  plus  one  is  going  to  depend  on n.  N  plus  two is  going  to  depend  on  Sn  plus  one. They  are  not  going  to  be  independent. But  in  a  lot  of  cases, we  need  independent  samples. For  example,  Remember  from  last  week, we  want  to  compute the  expectation  or  something. In  that  case,  we  need  IID  samples, independent  and identically  distributed  samples. In  this  case,  what  we're  going  to  generate would  be  correlated  samples. The  ID  is  actually  very  simple. We  simply  throw  away some  of  the  centers  in  between,  right. So  I  take  n, then  I  take  something  far  away as  the  next  sample  and  so  on,  right. So  I  basically  throw  away  centers  in  between. So  that's  why  it's  all  ting. I  take  every  de  sample. So  then  this  will reduce  the  core  relation,  right. We  try  to  reuse  this  to reduce  the  core  relation, and  then  the  samples  will  take will  be  approximately  independent. That  is  to  do  the  independence, try  to  break  dependence  between  centers. This  can  also  be  used  in  the  case  to do  when  your  Sigma  is  chosen  to  be  too  large. Remember  when  your  Sigma  was  too  large, your  center  is  going  to  start  at some  point  going  to  start  at  some  point, all  these  vertical  parts, you're  going  to  start. The  idea  here  is we  still  run  this  market  chain. You  see  that  there  are  many  start  points. The  acceptance  rate  is  very  low. One  way  is  instead of  having  to  redo  the  whole  thing  again, you  can  do  the  dining  by taking  every  ten  sample  in  this  case, you  take  throw  away  the  in  between  samples, you  just  take  the  101. So  we  can  see  that  basically  I chose  the  one  that  further  away, and  then  I  will  combine  them  together so  you  can  see  that the  trajectory  now  becomes  better. But  of  course  you  need. Of  course  to  run  these, you  need  a  lot  more  samples and  then  you  basically row  ten  times  ten  times  more  sample, you  throw  away  those  in  between. This  is  d  equals  to  t  d. You  can  see  that  then  you  can produce  the  desired  distribution. This  is  one  way  to  if  you  happen  to  choose a  large  then  you can  actually  sub  sample,  right? There's  a  notebook  that  is  available, you  should  play  around  of  it. Basically,  this  one  is  trying to  use  gasium  distribution  to sample  a  gaussian  model  guie  distribution. Here  we  are  d.  With larger  D  if  I  use a  bigger  D  to  do the  d  of  course  the  dependency  will  be. You  can  see  that  this is  This  is  in  terms  of  d.  When  D  is  bigger, W  d  is  larger,  then  you  can see  that  the  core  relation  is  going  to  drop. Of  course  if  I  want independ  independent  center, then  my  core  relation has  to  be  close  to  zero. Independence  means implies  zero  core  relation. But  of  course  zero  core  reation doesn't  imply  independence. So  here  we  are  just  trying to  get  approximately  independent. By  plotting  this,  you  can then  decide  what  is  the  D? What  is  the  d  to  choose  so  that the  core  dation  becomes close  to  zero,  close  to  zero. A  bit  a  bit  small. You  probably  cannot  see  very  well. This  is  using,  I  also  cannot  see. Using  different  different  mas. Using  the  H  algorithm  using  different  mass. One  thing  to  note  here, this  is  the  git  sn. It  turns  out,  you  may  see  that the  git  syncing  actually  gives  you  very  good. Creation.  So  you  only  need a  20  plus  the  ds  t plus  C  ation  close  to  zero,  right. Whereas  using  the  M,  the normal  M,  the  random  w  h, you  need  more  than  40, more  than  40  to  get  close  to  zero  creation. We'll  see  how  to  do  the  git  sapling  later. W  is  the  next  topic. Okay.  Sling. This  is  actually  a  special  case  of the  metropolis  Hastings  algorithm. In  the  D  centering,  we  are trying  to  center  from a  multi  varied  distribution. Remember,  this  is  previously, we  have  to  write  it  as  P  Z  or  Pi  z. This  is  my  target  distribution that  I'm  trying  to center  from  is  a  high  dimensional. Now  we  write  it  out  so that  we  can  see  the  dimensions. So  z  one  up  to  D.  D  is  the  dimension. This  is  to  center  from. But  if  we  can  compute the  conditional  distribution. So  I  take  each  dimension  each  of  the  the  Z  Is and  I  can  find the  conditional  distribution  condition on  all  the  other  zs. Basically,  I  can  find Z  one  given  Z  two  all  the  way  to  ZD. I  can  find  Z  two  given  Z  one, Z  three,  the  weight  of  D  and  so  on. D. Okay.  So  if  I  can  find the  conditional  PDF  of each  component  condition  of all  the  other  components, then  I  can  use  the  git  senting. How  does  the  git  sening  work? Let's  look  at  the  whole  procedure. We  are  going  to  start from  some  brandon  initialization. So  start  from  some  random  values. Then  I'm  going  to  iterate. In  each  iteration,  there are  actually  multiple  subsets. For  each  iteration  k,  first  of  all, I'm  going  to  sample  the  first  component. Condition  on  the  values  that I  sampled  in  the  previous  iteration. Previously,  I  this  is  a  iterative  process. I'm  going  to  make use  of  the  previous  samples, just  substitute  it  into the  conditional  distribution  and  then  sample the  z  one  condition  on  the previous  z  two  up  to D.  After  I've  gotten  Z  one, then  I'm  going  to  sample  the  z  two  Again, condition  on  the  previous  samples, but  notice  that  the  Z  one is  now  updated  with  the  most  recent  one. Each  time  I  sample  something, I  always  use the  most  recent  sample  in  the  condition. Z  two  is  now  sampled using  the  most  recent  sample  from  z  one, and  of  course,  the  Z  I  haven't  sampled  yet, I'm  using  the  previous  round. Similarly,  your  z  three, three  k  will  be  sampled  from  Now z1k  z2k  because  I have  done  the  spring  for  z  two, and  then  z4k  minus  one. Each  time,  each  of the  subsetting  your  kration, I  will  do  in  order, c  z  one  and  then  use  it  as  a  conditioner  for z  two  and  the  rest  and  then c  z  two  with  the  updated  z  one, but  of  course,  with  the  z  three  and the  rest  coming  from  the  previous k  minus  one  deation. So  your  samples  are  updated. I  think  that's  the  key  point so  it  must  be  updated. Okay.  And  then  finally, I  will  come  to  the  last  one,  right? And  then  of  course,  it's  condition on  all  the  updated  ones. So  that's  one  iteration. So  after  this  one  iteration, I'll  repeat  again,  start the  whole  process  again. That's  one  but  condition on  the  most  recent  samples  and so  then  we  will  do  the  same  as  before,  right? Then  period  is  for the  iteration  this  Okay. So  this  is  supplementary. This  is  actually  a  special  case on  the  page  algorithm. So  what  you  put  is  okay, we  can  think  of  it  as basically  each  time,  right? Each  of  the  subset, we  are  actually  replacing  this  side. So  for  example,  at the  state  trying  to  sample  the  J, the  J  So  I'm  starting  from  here, right  where  this  one  is  already centered  at  the  K  iteration. This  one  is  already  centered, and  then  this  is  the  one that  I  want  to  replace. And  of  course,  this  will still  from  the  k  minus  one  right  this. Basically,  I  can  think  of this  as  actually  doing a  metaphoric  step  from this  guy,  go  to  this  guy. Whereby  you  can  see  that  right  here, all  of  these  remain  the  same, all  of  these  remain  the  same. The  only  difference  is  this guy  change  to  this  guy. This  is  actually  the  metropolis  hasting. From  here  to  here,  I'm  actually doing  a  metropolis  heting. In  fact,  this  metropolis  hasting has  acceptance  probability  equals  to  one. Okay.  So  I'm  not going  to  go  through  all  these  expression. You  know,  the  colors  here  is supposed  to  help  you  to  visualize. I  to  make  sure  everything  is  correct. So  you  want  to  compute the  acceptance  probability  going from  here  to  here. Okay.  The  acceptance  probability all  these  different  colors. Same  color  means  they are  the  same  expression. So  this  blue  one  is  this  guy, this  guy  is  this  guy. So  if  you  extend  it  out, expend  it  out,  you  will  get  exactly. So  that's  why  you  can see  in  the  git  centering. There's  no  acceptance  or  rejection,  right. So  every  step  is  actually accepted  I  rest  mis  accept  it. Okay.  The  key  point is  that  because  the  proposal  distribution is  using  this  conditional  distribution. I  think  maybe  let  me  emphasize. In  your  git  sampling. There's  no  proposal  distribution. There's  no  proposal. We  are  always  sampling from  the  conditional  distribution. Of  course,  then  this  implies that  I  can  do  git  sampling only  in  the  case  where  I  can sample  from  the  conditional  distribution. But  sampling  from the  conditional  distribution  is  actually  not difficult  because  this  is a  one  dimensional  distribution. Your  I,  this  is  a  scatter. This  is  a  scaled  value,  right? We  are  basically  looking  at  z, this  is  high  dimension. We  are  looking  at  each  component, z  one  up  to  ZD. Each  of  these  guys,  these  are  all  scaled, these  are  all  one  dimensional. This  is  actually  a  one dimensional  distribution. This  is  one  dimensional. And  we  are  many  ways  to  sample  from your  one  dimensional  distribution from  last  week. If  this  conditional  distribution  happens to  be  a  standard  distribution, you  can  use  whatever  method  we  had  last  week. You  can  use  rejection  send  bring. You  can  use  important  send  bring, the  sendring,  important  sendring,  right. And  so  there  are  a  lot  of easy  ways  to  sample from  one  dimensional  distribution. But,  I  mean  to  apply  those  ways, we  still  need  to  figure  out  what  is this  conditional  distribution,  right? Okay. And  if  we  use  this  conditional  description, then  it  turns  out  that. You  acceptance  probability will  always  be  equal  to  one. So  that's  why  there's  no  need to  do  any  rejection. This  means  that  your  bit  sampling is  actually  very  efficient,  right? There's  no  rejection. All  the  samples  are  actually  being  used. Okay. So  then  we  have  the  same  thing again  to  get  the  approximately  IID  senors. We  can  basically  just  run the  sampling  r  times  you  by  one  RID  samples, the  easiest  way  is  basically  just  restart. You  just  run  one  sampling, just  take  the  last  one  and then  restart  again, take  another  one, we  start  again,  take  another  one. Because  the  bit  sampling  is  so  efficient is  every  sample  is  accepted, you  can  easily  run this  many  times,  then  just  take. But  I  mean,  another  way  is to  to  do  the  dining  as  before. Take  every  deep  sample, we  don't  want  to do  multiple  sampling  sequence, you  do  one  long  one  and then  same  as  before.  As  we  saw  us. Take  D  samples  every  deep  sample  row the  in  between  bars. This  one  also  work  and  we  saw  now,  right? The  core  dation  is  actually  very  good,  right. You  Dquals  to  small  value  of  D  is  sufficient to  already  get  cruise  zero  core  dation. Okay.  So  now  the  key  part is  how  to  get this  conditional  distribution  pa. This  sample  all  depends on  being  able  to  figure out  what  are  the  conditional  distributions so  that  you  can  then  sample  from  it. Conditional  distributions,  in  fact, are  not  so  difficult  to  find. If  you  do  at  this  conditional  distribution. I'm  conditioning  on  all  these  values. Remember,  your  deep  center  basically  is  going to  substitute  the  values  of  all  these  guys, that  you're  conditioning  on these  are  values  from the  previous  step  or  the  previous  subset, updated  sentle  that  you  have  already  found. So  you  basically  take all  these  values  and  plug  it  inside. So  if  you  look  at  this, this  formula  over  here. The  highlighted  one,  right. This  is  the  only  variable inside  this  whole  formula. All  the  rest  are  constant  all  these  are constant  that  you  have  already put  in  the  exact  value. So  the  PDF,  is  only  depending on  this  one  is  a  function  of  z  one. So  which  means  that  All I  need  to  do  is  if  I look  at  this  joint  distribution, this  is  a  constant  is  some  constant  value. I  look  at  the  joint  distribution. To  find  what  is  the  condition? I  just  need  to  figure  out  which  parts  of the  joint  distribution  depends  on  z  one. Those  parts  that  don't  depend  on  one, I  think  just  show  they  are  become  constant. And  this  part  is  the only  one  that  depends  on  Z  one, Basically,  we  start with  the  joint  distribution. We  know  everything  that does  not  depend  on  z  one, and  then  we  can  try  to  make  use of  our  knowledge  of all  these  gun  known  distributions to  figure  out  what this  one  dimensional  distribution  is. Remember  this  is a  one  dimensional  distribution. We  have  many  tools  to  center  or  to  figure out  what  this  how to  deal  with this  one  dimensional  distribution. Okay,  to  give  you  an  example. So  we  start  off  with  a  very complicated  distribution  that  do  site, This  is  your  chop  distribution consisting  of  three  variables,  x,  y  and. These  are  all.  This  is a  three  variate  is a  three  varied  distribution  and  do  sites. The  mized  versions  AB and  Lamda  are  cost  constants. To  find  To  find the  conditional  of  condition  on  all  the  rest. All  I  need  to  do  is  to  focus on  this  blue  highlighted  one,  right. This  is  the  one  that  depends  on. This  is  the  one  that  depends  on  x. There's  a  x  here,  so  we take  this  as  dependent  on  X, then  the  rest  doesn't depend  on.  I  can  throw  away. In  fact,  this  guide  at  the  top,  right, you  can  write  it  as  y  x times  a  minus  one only  this  part  is  dependent  on. Finally,  I  just  abstract  those  parts that  depend  on  side,  is  this,  this, this  side  over  here,  I  mean, here  you  can  just  abstract  this  side  also, because  the  s  you  can  think  of  its  y  n  plus. This  part  doesn't  mean you  can  strike  this  one. But  the  key  point  is  that  once  you  see  the, you'll  know  that  this  is  binomial times  one  minus  y, and  then  we  have  a  minus  here. That's  why  I  multiply  that  minus  power. All  right. So  you  know  that  looking at  the  form  of  the  distribution, you  know  that  this  is  a  binomial. So  we  know  immediately  right. Binomial  right  and  we  know  how  to separate  from  a  binomial  distribution. Similarly,  now  do  a  y. And  we  want  to  find  the  condition of  y  condition  on  all  the  red.  Condition  on. So  B  is  the  magenta  colored  part. This  depends  on  y. This  depends  on. All  the  re  doesn't  depend  on  y. No.  You  look  at  this. If  you  look  at  this,  you  see  that this  is  actually  a  beta  distribution. And  finally,  the  distribution of  n  condition  of  x  and  y. This  part  depends  on  n. This  part  depends  on  n. This  part  depends  on  n. We  combine  them  together.  Yeah. If  you  do  at  a  mile, this  corresponds  to  the  one  distribution. These  are  all  well  known  distributions  and basically  to  match  and  see  which  song  is, for  all  these  well  known  distritions, usually  there  are  standard  ways that  we  know  how  to  semper  from  that. In  this  example,  we  know immediately  how  to  apply  the  gits  seling, because  now  we  have  the conditional  distribution, the  full  conditional  distrition, of  every  variable. I  can  do  git  sling. Your  de  sel  actually  also allows  you  to  for  example, you  want  to  just  sample  from  the  PX. Although  your  model,  let's  say  your  data, you  can  actually  observe, I  mean,  your  whole  model  has  X  Y  and s.  But  for  some  applications, you  only  want  to  sample  from  PX. If  I  want  to  sample  from  P  X,  then  by  right, I  need  to  marginalize  out the  Y  and  g.  I  need  to integrate  out  the  Y  and ng  so  that  I can  get  the  marginal  distribution  of  P  X, which  is  going  to  be  where TV  as  is  a  hassle  to  do  that. There's  no  reason  actually  to  do  that. In  fact,  I  can  just  sample  add  one  and  n, and  then  I  just  know  the  Y  and  n  samples, which  is  actually  much  easier  because the  git  sent  is  actually  so  efficient, I  can  just  do  the  git  sampler to  sample  or  x  one  and  n, and  then  I  just  n.  Keep  the  a  samples. Don't  need  to  do  all  the  integration  submis We  don't  want  to  go  and  try  to find  the  PX.  Okay. So  finally,  come  back  to our  motivating  example,  right? Okay.  So  let's  see  how  we can  solve  this  the  noisy  using  our  MCMC, the  things  that  we  have  learned. So  indeed  this  is actually  a  real  application. So  it's  like  this  method is  still  being  widely  used in  a  lot  of  applications  where  if  I want  to  noise  image. This  is  still  one  of  the, you  know,  popular  techniques  that  people  use. Okay.  So  starting  from  the  clean  image, I  did  have  a  corrupted  image, and  then  I  want  to  recover  the  clem  image. Okay.  So  given  the  nosy  image, why  I  want  to  recover  Z. Z  is  the  representation  of  the  clean  image. So  basically,  I  try  to  come  up  with a  way  to  estimate  the  posterior  distribution. Okay.  So  we  saw  before, right,  please  save  maybe. We  saw  before  that  this  side  is  going  to be  equals  to  y  given  z,  z. The  Y  given  Z,  we  can  use  a  very  simple  model whereby  we  assume  that the  YG  only  depends  on  Z. So  that's  why  we  have  a  product  here. So  it  becomes  a very  simple  livelihood  function. And  here  we  even  just assume  that  the  g  g  noise. You  G  is  added  with  some  me  noise. Basically  this  is  saying  that  YG also  some  gas  noise that  is  zero  mean  Sigma  square. Okay.  I  just adding  independent  dousing  noise, zero  mean  variance  s  to  each  of  the  pixel. Okay.  And  then  I  need  the  py  distrition. So  I'm  going  to  assume  that my  y  distribution  has  all  these  conditions. We  by  the  j, condition  on  all  the  other  pixels. So  I  take  I  take  one  pixel, and  then  the  conditional  distribution  of this  one  pizza  condition  on the  values  of  everybody  else. I'm  going  to  assume  that  it's  given by  this  product  over  here, which  is  the  so  we  have  this  function,  right. This  function  is  basically exponential  of  U  times. And  then  I'm  just  going  to  multiply this  function  across  all  the  neighbors. This  is  the  neighboring  one the  neighboring  pieces. Basically  is  saying  that given  these  four  neighboring  pits, all  the  rest  are  independent. I  don't  care  about  the  rest. I  only  care  about  this  four, then  this  PDF  is  going  to  be basically  some  exponente  with some  constant  j  this  guy  is basically  looking  at  the  correlation  or the  strength  between  the  actual  value, J  value  and  the  neighboring  pixel  value. We  are  basically  looking  at  this. This  UV. Basically  EJ  U  V  is  going  to  E, I  u  equals  to  v  the  same  value  and  e  minus j  u  not  equal  to v.  Remember  all  these are  plus  one  or  minus  one. If  both  of  them  are plus  one  or  both  of  them  are  minus  one, then  is  e  j. If  that  are  different,  then  min, obviously,  e  minus  is  smaller  than  Ej  e. So  you  have  a  exponential  function  negative s.  Like  that  the  negative  part,  right? So  E  minus  is  somewhere  here,  right. So  it's  going  to  be  lower  than  e  power. Okay. So  basically  is  telling  you the  strength  the  correlation  between  that, right? So  same  pixels  have  higher correlation  same  pixel  value. Different  pixel  value  will have  lower  correlation. So  and  then  multiplying the  correlation  across  all  the  neighbors. Okay.  So  now  I  need  to  figure out  the  conditional  distributions. Okay.  Is  that.  Yeah. This  is  given  in  the  proportional  form, so  I  can  actually, it's  very  easy  to  figure out  what  is  the  whole  at  form. I  basically  you  have  to  normalize, normalize  with  respect  to  the  posit  case. Because  your  Z  can  only take  plus  one  or  minus  one. So  the  normalization  the  case  one  is plus  one  and  then  the  minus  case. Then  you  just  normalize,  you  simplify. The  exact  conditional  distrition  is given  by  this  function,  this  sim  function. So  the  sim  function  is  defined  here. Is  basically  dependent  on  this  e  j. And  what,  A  is  just  a  summation  of  again the  the  product  of the  pizza  itself  with respect  to  the  neighbor  Sum  it  up. That  is  the  conditioner, but  this  is  not  exactly the  conditioner  that  we  are  looking  for. Remember,  we  are  we are  trying  to  center  from  here. If  I'm  going  to  use  the  bit  center, the  bit  centering,  what  do  I  need? I  actually  need  p  of  z given  z  minus  j  as  well  as  y. Okay.  So  I  hope  all  of  you  can see  the  Restaurant  center  from  here, right  is  always  condition  of  Y. So  to  do  the  centering, right  I  need  the  conditional of  all  the  z  one, z  two  conditions  on  all  the  rest, but  also  conditional  y. The  Y  is  observation. So  I  need  to  figure  out  I need  to  figure  out all  these  conditional  distriion. The  one  that  I  assume,  right, the  one  I  assume  is  without  the  y. Is  the  pirate  the  py  distriion  without  the  Y. Okay.  So  I  have  the  y  here. Because  we  have  already assumed  in  the  likelihood  that the  y  j  only  depends  on  z  j. The  rest  of  the  Y  doesn't  matter, so  I  can  simplify  thess  of  Y  j, and  then  use  a  base  rule. So  this  is  a  base  rule. And  now  with  the  Bo, you  can  see  that this  part  is  from  previously. This  is  from  your  by  hood,  right. And  then  this  part is  also  basically  from  the  by  hood. So  it's  basically  this  guy with  all  the  different  cases. Okay. So  with  that  everything,  this  guy, you  can  put  which  is  this  guy  over  here. This  is  your  normal  distribution. Is  a  normal  distrition,  and  then  normalize. So  these  are  the  two  cases. Again,  s  plus  one  or minus  one  as  divide by  the  two  possible  cases. After  you  simplify  this, this  whole  thing  will  also  become a  sigo  with  this  Sigi  applied  to  this. Yeah.  I  as  at  algebra  here. I'm  not  going  to  go  through all  the  great  details, but  you  can  see  that  I, a  simplification  al  simplification. The  key  point  is  this  being able  to  work  out  this  guy. Once  you  have  that  This conditional  distribution because  the  G  is a  binary  is  either  plus  one  or  minus  one. This  is  basically  just  a  binary  distribution. Is  just  telling  you  what's  the  probability of  g  equals  to  one, you  will  just  substitute  the  one on  then  what's  the  probability that  G  minus  one, you  will  just  substitute  the  minus  one  on, and  then  you  can  compute  the  probability. I  the  minus  one  is one  minus  the  probability that  G  equals  to  one. So  basically,  this  is just  a  binary  distribution with  this  particular  probability. And  we  know  how  to  sample from  binary  very  easily. It's  just  the  burned,  right? It's  a  burned  distribution. We  saw  last  week, we  can  just  use  a  uniform  distribution, take  a  sample,  and then  compare  with  the  probability,  right. Okay.  So  this  one  we  can  sample  easily. And  then  what  we're  going  to do  is  to  basically, we  are  going  to  center  from  this  using the  git  center  to  draw centers  from  this  postal  distribution. Of  course,  here  it  will  be  difficult  to  find the  maximum  a  posture  estimate, which  is  basically  finding the  all  the  z  values that  maximizes  this  poste  distribution, that  would  be  a  bit  difficult. So  what  we  do  is to  then  basically  find  the  mean. We're  tacking  all  these  samples. After  the  burning  period, we  take  the  We are  sampling  many  times  and  then we  are  going  to  take  the  average the  mean  value  of  all  the  js. And  then  we'll  take  this  as. This  will  give  us  the  mean of  the  postal  distriion, and  we'll  take  this  as  the  noise  image. Let's  see. Okay.  So  this  is the  implementation  over  here. This  is  the  prem  image. This  is  the  corrupted  image  that  you  have. Okay.  So  this  is the  definition  of  the  Sim  function. This  one  is  basically  is  a  function  to compute  the  so  called  energy. So  basically  we  computing  this  guy  over  here. Okay.  So  the  gig  central  is  down  here.  Okay. So  you  can  see,  right,  basically, we  are  computing  the We're  computing  this  normal  PDF, so  called  positive  and  negative. What  does  it  correspond to  is  basically  these  two  guides. The  positive  and  the  negative  one. Assuming  it  Zques  to  plus  one, then  this  is  the  positive, this  is  a  negative,  right? So  We're  basical  computing  these  two, and  then  we're  going  to  take  the  ratio. This  one  we  have  computed  previously, then  we  can  combine  everything  together. That's  where  the  log  ox, this  is  basically  taking  the  log. And  then  this  guy  over  here. This  guy  over  here  is  a  probability  value. This  is  a  probability  of  your  binomial. Sorry,  I  your binary  your  binary  distribution. So  you  can  see  here.  We  basically this  is  your  probability  over  here. This  guy  is  your  probability  over  here. We  are  basically  use a  uniform  random  number  generator to  generate  a  random  number. If  it's  less  than  this  probability, then  we'll  set  it  equal  to  one, if  it's  more  than  set  e  minus  one. Basically,  these  are  samples  of  the  Z. These  are  the  I  samples, and  then  we  are  now  going to  simply  after  the  burning to  basically  just  take  the  average for  each  ZI  value  will  take  the  average. If  you  run  this,  this  is  what  I  do  cite. Starting  from  the  beginning, this  is  the  noisy  one. Even  at  one  sample. Taking  one  sample  already  is  very  good. The  result,  you  can  see  from here  to  here  is  a  big. But  if  you  do  five  samples, 15  samples,  the  coming  samples. 50  samples,  you  can almost  basically  fully recover  the  creen  image. But,  this  is  a  simple  example. But  you  can  already  see  that it's  actually  a  very  powerful  technique. I  mean,  we  basically use  a  very  simple  model  to model  the  relationship  between  the  Z,  the  Zs, and  then  by  doing  this  MCMC  sampling, the  git  sampler,  we  can now  do  the  no  very  easily. Yeah.  Of  course,  this  is  only  one  example. This  PMC  is  actually  using  lot  pases, for  example,  for  your  neural  network. This  one.  We  haven't  covered  this. So  in  the  second  half  of  the  course, you  will  learn  about  all  these  MLPs and  different  kinds  of  neural  networks. But  in  this  course, the  neural  network  that  you will  learn  about  is basically  We'll  just  give you  one  output  one  answer. But  in  a  lot  of  cases, we  are  interested  to  know  how confident  this  output from  the  neural  network  is. We  want  suffer  confidence interval  for  the  output. Then  we  can  use a  so  called  basan  neural  network  where you  can  now  try  to  estimate  the  posterior. Probability,  right  the  procal  probability  of the  output  right  condition  on  the  input. And  so  how  to  estimate  the  proce  probability, of  course,  it  will  be a  high  dimensional  probability. It's  not  going  to  be  easy to  estimate  exactly. So  that's  why  we  are  going  to  use MCMC  techniques  in  the  training and  then  to  be  able  to, for  example, to  estimate  the  standard  deviation, right  the  standard  deviation  of  your  output. Okay. So  that  or even  a  confidence  interval  for  your  output. So  for  those  of  you  who are  interested  to  learn  more, you  can  check  out  this  link  over  here. To  see  more  examples  of where  this  CNC  technique  can  be  applied. Okay.  Before  we  do  the  ending, so  let  me  let's  do  one  last  set  clap. Yeah.  Okay.  I  think some  of  you  have  already  started. Okay.  So  I  guess  this  question is  basically  saying  to  ensure  fast  going  in, you  should  accept  every  sample. Of  course  we  know  this  is  not  true,  right. You  MH  algorithm  depends on  the  fact  that  you have  a  acceptance  probability, right,  you  cannot  just  anyhow set  the  acceptance  probability to  be  equals  to  one. It  has  to  follow  that  very specific  format  in  order  for the  mako  chain  to  convert to  your  stationary  distribution. Otherwise,  it's  not  going  to  work,  right. So  you  cannot  anyhow  going to  change  the  acceptance  probability. So  so  it  has  to  be  false. Okay.  So  make  sure  Yeah. Okay.  I  think  that's that's  about  it  for  this  one. Okay.  Quick  recap. Okay.  What  did  we  cover  today,  right? We  have  the  we  talk  about  machos. A  lot  of  the  theory  are  supplementary. That's  for  the  background  knowledge,  right. So  I  mean  definitely, I'm  not  going  to  test you  on  these  kind  of  things. But  I  hope  you  all  take  away an  appreciation  of  some of  the  math  behind  the  proceeds. So  basically,  All  these  MCMC  technique depend  on  this  thing  cos  stationarity. In  order  to  achieve  stationarity, it  has  to  satisfy  certain  properties, reducible  cos  recurrent  and to  make  the  markel  chain  converts to  the  stationary  distribution, we  also  need  the  A  periodic  condition. This  is  how  the  metro  proting  algorithm  work. Basically  design  a  make  chain  that  is god  basically satisfying  all  these  three  properties, body  and  then  converts  to the  target  PDF  that  you're  looking  for. Then  we  also  saw  bit  centering. Actually  bit  centering,  I  would say  is  actually  a  very  popular  technique, you  can  see  that  has quite  a  number  of  advantages. But  of  course  one  curvet is  that  to  do  the  bit  sapling, you  must  be  able  to  figure out  how  to  do  the  full conditional  all  the  conditional  distribution and  being  able  to  center  from  that. That's  the  only  road  block. But  if  you  can  do  that. I  will  probably  recommend  de sampling  if  you  can  find the  tal  distributions  probably  indeed just  use  a  sampling because  it's  much  more  efficient. Okay.  And  the  final  one is  this  summary  before. So  the  summary,  I  just  want  to give  a  quote  from  this  pile  Ciford. He's  a  very  famous  speciation. So  basically  right  in the  1990s  where all  these  MCMC  techniques  come  very  popular, and  people  leverage  on  the  MCMC  techniques. You  can  see  down  here.  In  the  past, we  are  basically  restricted  to  using very  age  of  distributions in  order  to  model  our  data. But  now  we  can  compare our  data  with  the  model  that  we  actually want  to  him  site  rather  than  with a  model  that  has some  mathematical  convenience  form. This  is  indeed  a  revolution. That's  why  the  MCMC  techniques. MCMC  is  considered  one  of the  most  important  algorithms in  statistics  and  machine  learning. Let  me  just  do  a  quick  summary.  Okay. So  here,  in  this  summary, we  are  going  to  do a  sampling  from  a  toy  is  a  toy  example, but  I  think  it's  very  instructive. It  shows  you  all  the  differences  and similarities  between all  the  sampling  methods that  we  have  learned  so  far. Okay.  Here  we  are  trying  to  sample from  a  uniform  distribution  in a  two  dimensional  uniform  distribution  in a  square  between  minus  one  to  one, the  Y  is  so  minus  one  to  one. Of  course,  to  sample  from the  uniform  distribution, you  can  do  it  directly. You  don't  use  this  technique, but  this  is  used  as  a  illustration. Instead  of  sampling from  the  uniform  distribution over  the  square  directly, we  are  going  to  use  a  Guzan  distribution  as a  proposal  distribution  to sample  this  uniform  distribution. To  illustrate  the  technique. Okay.  So  what's  happening  here. So  this  doze  distribution  is going  to  the  center  is  going  to  be  at  11. This  is  between  minus  one  and one  rate  square  is  your  uniform  distribution. When  sample  from  this  uniform  distriion, so  to  be  uniformly  distributed inside  this  rate  square. But  the  Duan  distion, the  center  is  11  at  11. Okay.  The  Delcam  dision, if  I  sample  directly from  the  gals  distrition, the  center  is  here,  you're  going to  get  this  green  samples, which  are  not  all dang  form  inside  the  red  square,  right. This  green  color  samples  will definitely  not  be  equivalent  to the  uniform,  how  can  we  do  that? How  can  we  use  the  galcam? The  first  thing  that  we  saw was  using  the  rection  sampling, If  I  do  reaction sampling  using  a  suitable  multiplier. Yeah. I'm  not  going  to  go through  the  code  if  you  do the  rejection  sampling  using a  pseudo  multiplier. The  blue  color  samples  are  from  the  gaussian. But  because  of  the  rejction  sampling, all  these  due  color  ones are  going  to  be  rejected. Then  only  the  one  in  the  red  color  square. This  will  be  accepted by  the  rejection  sampling. You  can  see  that  in  the  rejction  sampling a  lot  of  samples  are  wasted. But  you  do  get  the  right  right  samples. The  accepted  ones  will always  be  inside  the  red  square. Okay.  So  that's  rejection  sampling. How  about  important  sampling? Important  sampling  was  to do  find  the  expectation,  right. So  here,  this  is  yeah, you  can  see  this  is  finding the  men,  the  mean. So  So  you  can  see the  mean  is  that  you are  that  we  find  is  very  close  to  00, which  is  indeed  a  case  the  meaning of  the  uniform  right  will be  at  the  origin  right  00. Okay.  So  if  I  do  important  sampling, you  are  going  to  get  very  close  to  00. To  get  the  actual  samples, I  am  doing  the  sampling  important  resampling, doing  the  resampling.  So  you  can  see. The  red  ones. The  red  ones  are  basically  all  the  samples, all  the  samples  that  I've  chosen from  the  Gaiu  distribution, but  when  I  do  the  resembling, remember  your  resembling  there's a  important  we  attach to  each  of  these  samples  that I  drawn  from  the  proposal  distribution. You're  going  to  compute  the  weight. The  weight  of  those  that  are outside  of  this  s  over  here  will  all  be  zero. The  weights  will  all  be  zero. Then  when  you  do  the  SIR, do  the  resembling  from all  the  samples  over  here, Only  the  green  ones  will  be  chosen. So  that's  how  you  managed  to  get  the  centers within  the  desired  square. All  these  other  in some  sense,  it  will  be  wasted. Although  there's  no  rejection  here, it  all  depends  on  the  weight  and all  these  weights  will  be exactly  equals  to  zero. So  when  you  do the  resting  everything  will  be  here. Now  we  do  the  metropolis  sting. So  you  can  see  the  metropolis with  round  many  steps. All  these  blue  color  samples are  the  rejected  ones. So  you've  got  the  acceptance  probability, going  sample  from  the  DalcM. From  the  DalcM,  you'll  get all  these  samples  and  then  compute the  acceptance  probability if  the  fall  outside this  would  be  actually  be  equals  to  zero. You  acceptance  probability  will be  zero.  So  you'll  be  stuck. For  example,  you  have  t  here, you  sample  something  outside  here, you'll  be  equal  to  zero, and  you  are  stuck  here. And  then  you  have  to  wait  for  quite  some  time before  you  happen  to sample  something  inside  here. Then  we  have  positive  probability  of acceptance  and  if  you  get  accepted, then  you'll  move  to  another  sampling  here. Eventually,  by  doing  many  samples, you  can  see  here  we  do  at  many  samples. A  lot  of  them  are  rejected  and finally  we  get  all  these  samples  xy  square. Git  sampling.  Git  sampling  has no  rejection  and  everything is  nicely  within  the  square. All  the  samples  in  trove we  for  exactly  square. Yeah.  That's  a  summary  of all  the  sampling  techniques that  we  have  learned. Okay. Great. Any  final  questions? Okay. Okay.  There's  one  question  here. EX  gives  the  probability  that  we not  accept  y,  Threshold. AX  is  the  probability  of  accepting  y, which  means  that  this  is  the  one that  is  the  bias of  the  coin  that  you  are  going  to  toss. You  are  going  to  toss  a  coin  with probability  A  X  Y  will  give  you  the  ta. It's  not  a  fair  coin  the  bias of  the  coin  is  exactly  AX  Y. So  how  to  inclement,  then we  will  take  this  AX  Y  as the  threshold  and  we  are  going  to  draw a  uniform  distribution a  uniform  random  variable  0-1, and  use  this  uniform  random  variable to  compare  again  AX. If  my  is  smaller  than  AX  y,  then  I'll. If  it's  small  than  AX,  then  I'll  re. If  one  of  the  elements  in the  transition  matric  T  is  zero, there  won't  be  a  stationary  Yes. Not  necessarily. So  as  long  as  it's  reducible, as  long  as  reducible, it's  possible  that  you  will  still have  a  stationary  distribution. Okay.  Not  sure  what  happened. All  right.  So  for  example, you  do  at  this  case,  right? Red  means  there's  a  hotly  probability  path from  any  one  state  to  another  one, right?  For  example,  you  do  at  three. There's  no  probability  that  goes  3-2,  right. So  in  the  transition  metric, the  T  two,  T  two  will  be  equal  to  zero. But  this  is  still  reducible,  right? Because  going  from  three, you  can  go  to  one  and  one  can  go  to  two. So  it  doesn't  mean  that  you  have zero  in  your  transition  matrix, then  you  won't  have  stationary. You  can  still  have  stationary. Yeah.  So  this  is  not  always  the  pi. So  each  dimension  independent? No.  So  each  dimension is  definitely  not  independent. That's  why  we  need  the conditional  distribution. Remember,  you  are  actually separe  from  the  conditional  distribution, condition  on  all  the  other  dimensions. This  conditional  distribution. If  it's  independent,  that  means  it doesn't  depend  on  the  values of  the  condition,  right. But  in  general,  it's not  going  to  be  independent. So  you  have  to  plug  in  the  values of  the  other  dimension  you  do  the  sac. But  we  are  doing  the  sampling  step  by  step. So  I  sample  Z  one, using  this  conditional,  sample  Z  two, using  this  conditioner  and  so  on. So  this  is  individual  steps, right  I'm  sampling  each of  the  components  individually. Okay.  So  but the  distriion  is  not  independent. Okay.  Okay. Go  further. Okay.  Yeah. Any  further  questions,  you  can  always email  me  and  yeah. So  next  week,  please, we  punch  for  the  quiz. And  then  we  will  also  have a  final  review  right  after  the  quiz.  Okay. I'll  see  you  next  week.  Thank  you.  Thank  you. An.  Could  you help  the  recommendation  aation. When  did  you  in  year  one  or  year  two. Semester.  The  semester? Yeah,  now  in  semester.  Okay. I  mean,  in  general,  I  don't  mind  writing  but you  will  be  better  if  for  example, let  you  know  how  you  perform  in  his  course. So  I  come  right  now. Performing  this  course. Perform e  mail. E  mail detention. Okay. Physics. Okay.  To  go across  the  fine
