H.  Hello. Good  afternoon.  And  evening  to  everyone. Welcome  back  to  the  lecture. Sorry  for  the  slight  delay  because  of the  previous  the  quiz  of  previous  class. All  right.  All  right. So  we'll  pick  up where  we  stop  at  previous  week. So  Okay. I'll  come  back  to  the  first  slide  here. Previously,  we  covered  quite  a  portion of  the  regression  learning  method. Basically,  we  have  covered  this  four  path. And  as  I  said  before, this  is  nothing  but  just  an  extension to  the  previous  remember the  overdetermined  underdetermined  systems over  equal  or  under. But  they  are  named  under different  names  like  and  dual. Primer  means  over  and  dual means  D.  In  practical  systems, we  seldom  have  equal  determined. But  actually  equal  determined, you  can  push  to  one  of  them  over. They  give  quite  about  the  same  solution. Today,  we  are  going  to  continue to  complete  the  remaining  part. Basically,  kernel  regression and  kernel  reach  regression. They  are  also  fall  under the  category  of  underdetermined  system. In  this  class,  in  the  previous  week, there's  not  that  much  new  things  to  learn. Basically,  the  extension to  what  you've  learned, and  you've  learned  them  or  you  have  already solved  many  problems  during  the  quiz  one. But  these  names  or these  terms  have  been  used  in  the  literature because  of  the  evolution  of the  different  research  from  different  parts. And  then  the  different  name has  a  little  bit maybe  somewhat  different  purpose. But  they  all  boil down  to  the  over  and  under  determined  system. So  that  you  can  try to  use  that  as  a  baseline. And  then  the  remaining  is  extension. Extension  include  polytomal  extension. Then  kernel  extension. This  is  what  the  two  main  parts that  we  teach  in  this  class. Point  nominals, there  are  various  point  normals, various  order,  and  also  it  can  also truncate  some  partial  point  normals that  reduce  point  normal  or  whatever. You  can  create  your  own  point  nominal  terms. Then  Kernel  is  even  more  flexible. And  we  come  to  kernel  regression now.  We  are  somewhere  here. We  also  have  introduced  the, the  kernel  model  in  lecture  three. Remember,  we  normally  model  the  data. These  are  the  raw  inputs  and  output. P  can  represent  a  transform  input. The  original  input  is  basically  P  of  x. Input  and  output,  we model  by  a  model  G.  In  our  course, most  of  g  can  be  formulated  in linear  form  so  that  you can  get  a  close  form  solution, and  then  plus  some  error. You've  seen  this  model  before. Previously,  mainly  Chapter  three  introduced the  linear  model  under  the  parameter. Tub,  Subd  has  the  dimension of  if  under  P  is basically  d  plus  one,  that's  under. Correspond  to  P  transform  terms  of  x. If  it's  under  the  normal  x, this  x  then  is  d  plus  one, the  original  d  dimension. Has  a  di  d  plus  one  dimension. Same.  I  depends  on  whether  you use  p  p  x  or  x. We  also  have  seen  that  the  here  can  be transformed  into  a  combination of  the  training  data. Maybe  to  illustrate  this, I  think  I've  gone  this  before. So  suppose  X  one, X  two  to  X  11. A  all  these  X  are  training  data. The  training  dt  given  to  you. An  new  data,  Te  data. We  call  it  new  data. Can  be  can  find  association  to the  training  data  by defining  a  set  of  weight  called  Alpha. You  can  basically  draw  whatever  data and  you  draw  connection to  of  the  training  data, every  point,  and  the  length  of this  can  indicate  the  weight. The  closer,  the  weight  is  smaller, the  further  the  weight  is  bigger. That  is  the  distance. This  Alpha  value  is  basically  this. If  it's  in  this  two  D, then  it's  just  geometrical  distance. A  maybe  if  your  new  data  is  here, you  also  can  draw  the  same  thing. You  can  form  the  dina  combinations from  every  point  of  craning  data  every  point. And  you  have  different  sets  of  Alpha  values. You  can  see  this  form  of  space. This  space  is  anywhere. No  limited  to  just  what  you  can  draw. Imagine  this  x  are  high  dimensional  data. And  this  high  dimensional  x  can span  or  can  form any  new  vector  by  linear  combination. This  is  basically  what  this  equation  means. This  dinar  combination  can be  equal  to  any  new  data  x. Can  span  this  and  then  for the  new  functional  out. This  is  the  basic  idea  of  kernel. So  this  part  is  basically  a  any  new  data. New  data  also  called  no  new  test. I  think  they  are  quite used  quite  similarly  in many  machine  learning  papers  or  books. Any  noble  data  Correlation, the  knelt  kernel  is  a  distance between  this  new  data and  all  the  training  points, and  weighted  by  Alpha. This  is  a  new  model  defined  by  Alpha instead  of  the  w.  Because the  summation  is  up  to  M, M  is  basically  the  size  of  training  data. El  parameter  size, Kernel  parameter  size  is  basically. Regardless  of  what  kernel, you  can  use  pomal  kernel,  the  size  is  still. You  can  use  Gausan, you  can  use  in  the  product. It  is  still  because  kernel  is decided  by  data  size. This  has  to  be  clear. The  main  difference  is, we  are  transforming  this  dimension. To  Mm.  That's  all. What  is  the  advantage? It  depends  on  whether  d  is  bigger. If  d  d  plus  one  is  bigger  than  m, then  this  system  is  over  or  underdetermined, underdetermined  because  m  is  smaller. You  have  a  matrix  matrix and  many  d,  d  plus  one. Under  determined  systems, we  prefer  to  solve  the  Alpha. Because  Alpha  the  inverse  matrix corresponds  to  Alpha  is  smaller.  Is  n  by  m. This  P  multiplied  by  P  transpose. You  get  n  by m.  We'll  see  this  operation  soon. For  the  other  case,  smaller than,  it  becomes  overdetermined. Then  we  prefer  to  solve  d  dimension. Basically,  we  want  to  solve a  equation  under  the  smaller  dimension. This  will  give  you a  conditioned  metric  for  inverse. Of  course,  sometimes  we may  want  to  do  otherwise. Solve  under  determine using  overdetermined  methods. You  to  certain  extent, you  can  solve  it  by  adding  regularization. We'll  see  that  also. But  then  to  a  certain  extent,  we  can  do. May  not  get  as  good  accuracy. The  best  is  solve  it  in the  smaller  dimension. That's  a  main  strategy. To  manipulate  kernels. Now  we  want  to  do  to  form  the  training  set. So  I  lecture  three, we  haven't  done  that  yet. Here,  we  want  to pack  all  the  data  supposed  we  have  data, M  pieces  or  samples, P,  the  number  of  rows. N  nom  rows,  t  both  here. The  n  times  the  p  metric is  n  time  d  plus  12d  plus  12n. N  number  of  rows,  n  d plus  one  number  of  columns. Given  so  many  data, we  can  pack  the  linear  equation, a  linear  model  into  P  times  sub  D, in  terms  of  data. You  sin  this  in the  previous  lecture.  In  the  lecture  three. The  P  is  the  P  is  m  times  d  plus  one. And  tub  is  one  times  d  plus  one. Big  D.  12d  plus  one. The  method  comply  met.  Sorry  for  that? I  think  I  should  turn  of the The the  change from  the  to  Alpha here  is  basic  in  matrix  form, it  is  changing  in  this  way. The  sum  is  ten  b  the  p multiplied  by  Alpha  P  transpose  Alpha. Basically  is  equal  to p  transpose  Alpha,  which  is  here. So  this  is  a  change  in  matrix. It  is  it  appears  much  more  net. Actually  5.46  and  5.45 are  similar  things  except  that 5.46  pack  all  the  M  data into  matrix  and  vector. 5.45,  just  the  refer  to  single  piece  of  data. C. Now,  in  the  literature, this  P  transpose  P can  be  denoted  as  a  kernel  matrix. It's  known  as  a  kernel  matrix. There  are  many  names  to  this  K.  K, some  digital  known  as  gram  matrix. Actually,  when  you  multiply two  metrics  by  itself, one  of  them  transpose  here  or  here. In  many  literature,  these  are called  covariant,  either  way. But  mostly  people  call  this  covariance  and people  call  this  and  both  are P.  P  call  the  other  one  gran  matrix. One  is  it's  not  inner  product  because inner  product  is  referring  to vector,  and  outer  product. Basically,  these  are  quite similar  in  meaning  in  some  sense. But  when  you  multiply  together, the  product  terms  are  different. One  is  summing  the  data, one  is  summing  the  d  dimension. The  two  way  of  summing. This  two  way  of  summing  produce different  results  as  well. This  is  a  basic  essence of  over  and  underdetermined  system. Over  determined  system, use  the  covarence  here. Under  determined  system, use  the  covalence  here. In  general,  I  call  both  of  them  covalent. But  the  lower  one,  we  call  it  grammatric, also,  more  commonly  known. This  k  can  be  decomposite  in  the  p. And  in  general,  the  K, this  the  decomposition  of  k  in  the  P, the  inner  product  between  two  p, the  co  been  the  pong between  the  two  the  same  p, My  not  be necessarily  known  the  decomposition. You  may  not  need  to  know  the separate  P.  If  you know  separate  P  is  the  normal  way of  solving  when  we  use  the  deal, because  you  form  the  model, you  have  every  term,  then  you'll  know the  p  term,  every  role. But  Kernel  has  an  advantage. You  don't  need  to  even  know  a  separate  form. You  can  obtain  the  combined  form  in  one  go. And  this  is  particularly obvious  when  you  do  it  in  point  mal, and  we'll  show  you  that. First,  I  want  to  emphasize K  is  dimension  m  by m.  That's  the  first  thing.  Data  dimension. Kernel  is  data  dimension. Always  remember  that. Is,  the  matrix  PTP is  basically  D  plus  one. I  like  to  use  big  D  because  it  can reverse  the  big  and  small  D  includes. B  transform  and  the most  general untransformed  one  is  the  original  one. The  original  one  non  transformer. So  it's  small  d. When  you  multiply  the training  matrix  together, the  covariance  or  the  gram  matrix is  known  as  training  kernel  matrix. Later,  we  need  to  form the  testing  kernel  matrix in  order  to  do  prediction. Okay. Now  there's  a  question. I'd  like  you  to  think  a little  bit  first  before I  provide  the  solution. So  given  that  an  explicit  feature  matrix is  not  required  for  point  normal  kernels. This  form  is  not  required. It  can  be  used.  But  in practice,  we  normally  don't. We  can  ignore  it  by using  some  other  shortcut. How  can  the  kernel  message be  computed  in  metric  form? Some  can  cannot  so  easily  computed. The  obvious  one  is  a  polynomial. Gaussian,  you  have  to  compute every  combination  of  the  items. And  then  this  linear  combination  in Alpha  define  a  space because  this  training  points Any  combination  of  Alpha  values, define  a  new  point. Any  new  set  of  Alpha  values, define  a  new  point. This  point  is  dense. Dense  means  no  gap in  between.  It  forms  a  space. This  space  can  be known  as  Hubert  vector  space. Basically,  it  means  the  similarity  score  of a  pair  of  vectors  may be  represented  by  inner  product associated  with  the  space. This  combination  of  this  inner  product points  for  all  the  Alpha of  these  inner  products, some  together  can  form a  point  and  that  form  a  space. That  define  apace.  A  space is  defined  by  this  D  of  Alpha. Previously,  the  space  is  defined  by  the  w123, which  is  bigger,  big D.  Alpha typically  internal  is  smaller  than  D. Alpha  is  a  fat  matrix  P,  fat  matrix. M  is  smaller  than  D. The  remaining  part  is we  go  back  to  lecture  three  again, solving  those  over or  under  determined  systems. Over  here,  we  just  provide  there  are different  ways  to  get  to the  same  solution  from different  starting  point, but  they  mean  actually  boils down  all  boils  down  to  the  over  under. So  that's  how  you  can  connect all  the  quite  similar  theories  together. If  we  convert  our  model  into the  K  Alpha,  instead  of  P, we  are  changing  from  P  to  K  Alpha, is  solving  under  the  D  per  one  space. Alpha  is  solving  under the  space,  sample  space. We  still  can  do  the  same  optimization. But  now  the  optimization  object is  basically  trying  to  minimize or  trying  to  adjust the  Alpha  values  so that  the  total  cost  function, which  is  a  square  error, Square  era  is  basically  distant, and  can  be  expanded  into  this  era  term. And  the  rest  is  the  same  as  solving a  least  square  forum. Minimize  this  with  respect  to  Alpha. First,  we  have  to  find the  partial  derivative  of  the  cost  function. As  we  say  last  week, the  partial  detive  is  basically the  gradient  in  high  dimensional  space. Partial  det  is  a  vector. This  gradient,  gradient  of every  dimension  goes  to  zero, That  means  that  point  which  has  gradient zero  is  a  stationary  point. Stationary  means  it  just  flat. So  Stationary  point  can mean  this  point  or  can  mean this  point  or  can  mean  this  inflection  point, maximum  point,  minimum  point. We  know  that  this  is  s  square  means  this  way. If  you  don't  have  a  negative  sign  in  front. Only  one  way.  King  is  a  square, knowing  stationary  point, it  points  to  only  this  case, only  the  minimum  case. But  if  you  don't  know  that it's  a  square  formulation, then  you  need  to  find  the  second  rative so  that  you  find  the  gradient  is  increasing. Increasing. If  breeding  is  decreasing, then  it  otherwise,  is  maximum  point. In  optimization, either  you  saw  minimum point  or  maximum  point. But  in  most  textbooks, whatever  points  convert  to minimum  point,  standardize. Maximum  point,  you  add  the  negative  sign, you  can  flip  the  maximum  to  minimum. This  is  easily  done. We  usually  call  minimization, instead  of  maximization. Differentiating  and  put  to  zero, and  with  the  knowledge  of  square  era, we  know  we  are  solving just  one  minimum  point. Because  there  are  two  conditions, one  and  two  conditions. First  order  conditions, this  is  a  first  order  condition, and  it  is  a  necessary  condition, only  necessary,  but  two  is  sufficient. We  didn't  formally  do two  because  we  know  it's  a  square. But  if  we  don't  know  it's  a  square, you  need  to  do  two.  Fine  second  narrative. Whether  it's  increasing, decreasing  first  order is  increasing  the  gradient  zero. Second  order  is  whether gradient  itself  is  increasing  or  decreasing. That's  a  second  order. That's  enough  two  conditions. Using  the  first  order  condition, we  do  measure  detive, we  differentiate  one  part and  keep  the  other  part. You  differentiate  one  part,  you get  Alpha  out. Usually,  you  get  a  negative  sign out  because  it  minus  k  Alpha. Us  negative  sign  out  here. You  keep  the  other  side. Then  this  is  called the  normal  equation  that  we've  seen also  in  lecture  t.  A  falls  back  to  lecture  t. I'll  go  study  faster, and  I  hope  you  enjoy  all  these  few  parts. They  are  all  co  related. You  just  understand  lecture and  just  link  them  together. This  is  the  easiest  way  of  linking. Know  the  care  and  link  up. It's  much  easier  than  separately. Multiply  and  whatever  you  do  manipulation, you  get  this  Alpha. After  knowing  Alpha,  and  remember  previously, previously,  we  know  that subdue  is  equal  to  p  transpose  Alpha. We  know  this.  You  substitute  Alpha into  equal to  p  Alpha  Alpha. You  basically  need  to  multiply  pt by  this  K  inverse. Remember  the  K  inverse  is basically  So  you  go back  to  the  underdetermined  system. This  is  just  to  show  you  the  linkage. After  summing  alpha  you  put  back  you  can  go back  to  the  original  formulation. But  internal,  internal  more  frequently, if  we  cannot  separate  the  p, we  basically  calculate  the  kernel  between the  test  sample  and  the  training  sample. Calculate  k  and  k. You  don't  need  to  know  p  at  all. Usually,  especially  for  point  normal. Because  if  you  use very  high  order  point  normals, the  terms  may  be  enormous  terms, maybe  infinite  number  of  terms  if  you have  a  large  dimension  for  high  order  system, and  you  up  a  lot  of  the  RM  space  to  do such  a  summation  and multiplication  and  product  and  submission. We  can  evaluate  the  K  directly, and  we  show  that. In  practice,  You  just need  to  find  the  nel  k and  you  solve  for  Alpha  already. Just  multiply  the  nel test  nel  with  the  Alpha. You  get  the  solution.  You  get  the  output. You  don't  need  to  convert  to  first. To  convert  to,  you  need  to know  P.  By  skipping, you  just  need  to  know  the  kernel  between the  training  data  and  training  and  test data  and  you  can  get  the  output right  away  without  bypassing. Over  here  is  bypassing. O.  Then  it  is straightforward  to  extend  to multi  class,  multi  category  learning. Just  like  in  a  previous  lecture  three, we  change  K  remain  the  same. We  change  the  small  y  to  big  y  to indicate  to  include  different  columns of  y  back  together, and  we  have  different  columns  of  Alpha. This  Alpha,  this  Alpha are  basically  many  columns  of  Alpha, put  together,  which  is  this  A. Big  A  means  many  columns  of  Alpha. Big  many  columns  of  y. Many  columns  of  output. W  is  same. You  can  pack  in  big  if  you  need. Usually  you  skip  estimation of  in  many  cases  in. But  if  you  can  evaluate  P, then  it's  fine  to  compute. Sometimes  you  cannot  evaluate  P  easily. Now,  we  extend  this  concept of  learning  a  little  bit  more. We  add  one  more  term  here, Kernel  ach  regression. Remember,  reach  is  basically adding  a  biased  term. Which  accounts  for  the  size  of  the  weights? Basically,  we  add  the  size of  the  weight  to  penalize the  weight  size  so that  the  weight  coefficient, the  values  are  not  so  big. As  we  said  before,  when the  weights  are  very  big, the  estimated  value  is  a  combination  of. Big  affect  big  fluctuation  in  the  output. Because  you  some  big  numbers, and  when  you  multiply  by  your  input  x, you  get  a  sm  change in  x  change  because  you  multiply  by  big, the  output  can  change  a  lot. We  penalize  the  weight so  that  the  weight  is  smaller, you  multiply  by  small  number, the  change  is  not  so  big. We  then  add  this  term into  the  cost  function,  this  plus  this. Okay.  This  term  is  equal  to  this. And  then  this  term  is basically  can  be  written here  because  P  P, P  transpose  is  basically  k. You  can  write  k  or  k  transpose because  they  are  the  same. K  is  a  symmetric  matrix. K  is  symmetric. Symmetric  matrix. You  can  write  either  k  or  k  transpose. I  write  K  trans  is  s  to synchronize  with  the  multiplication  later. So  that  the  symbol  looks  more  synchronize. The  rest  of  the  state  is  still  the  same. The  learning  state  is  basically  optimization, finding  the  grading  equal  to zero  as  first  order  necessary  condition, and  because  it's  a  square, this  term  is  a  square  term, and  this  term  also  a  square  term. This  is  a  square  term. This  is  a  error  square. So  it's  error  square. Both  of  square  term.  When  you have  two  square  term  of  convex  term, there's  a  rule  say  that  summing of  two  convex  functions  give you  the  result  also  combat. It  doesn't  change  the  property. So  you  will  still  get the  one  optimum  point  for  this  system. Now  we  add  two  convex  systems. Combat.  You  just  need the  first  order  necessary  condition  and take  the  first  parser  derivative put  to  zero  and  solve  the  equation. This  is  exactly  the  same as  risk  regression  you've  learned  in lecture  in  earlier  in  SSE, in  this  lecture  five. So  these  are  basically the  derivative  duration  steps and  only  this  is  added. This  is  the  norm  of  the  weight  square. Weighted  num  square. These  are  added  term  and  you  add  them  in  and eventually  you  get  an  additional  term inside  the  inverse.  That's  all. The  solution  is  basically  the  same  as the  risk  regression  introduced in  the  earlier  part  of  this  fi. Okay. So  all  almost  the  same. For  prediction,  you  basically  find the  between  the  test  data  and  training  data. You  need  to  find  all  the  distance  among all  the  paths  between  the  test  every  sample, compare  with  every  sample  of the  training  data  and  you  form  the  matrix. K,  KT.  This  is  known  as  KT. Corner  of  the  training  training set  a  testing  set. Then  this  estimated  Alpha. Bai  is  KT,  multi  by  Alpha. So  this  predicted  values. Because  we  generalize  the  category, multiple  classes. We  use  big  Y  and  big  big  G  output. This  this  min  class, single  column,  single  column, and  this  is  multiple  columns. O. The  cons.  It's  quite  straightforward. So  all  resemble  the  previous  one. Now  I  give  you  an  example  about  a  gulch, how  to  construct  a  gauchan  kernel in  single  dimension. Suppose  you  have  this  data,  and. These  are  the  training  data. These  are  the  training  data. At  this  point,  you  want  to  use this  data  to  form  the  kernel. Basically,  you  are  trying to  form  the  training  nel  first. Training  nel  is  a difference  difference  between every  different  pairs  of  kernel  in a  training  training  data.  Every  pa. One,  suppose  you  have  the  X  data. Here  x  is  single  dimension, but  your  x  can  be  matrix supposed  is  a  vector. Remember,  Here  this  x  is  just  a  single  data, which  is  one  point  only.  D  equal  to  one. In  this  metal  code, but  actual  case,  you  can  be  a  big  x. For  this  training  data, you  duplicate  the  same  training  data. One. And  basically,  you  try  to  find the  combination.  Between  every  pair. Row  one  to  row  one, k11,  row  one  to  row  two, k  one,  two,  row  one  to  row  three, K  one,  three,  k14. Your  k  values,  Ky  matric. K  one,  one  is  K  one, one,  K  one,  two,  and  so  on. Then  k22,  and  k21. This  matrix  is  symetric, one,  two,  and  21,  they  are  the  same. Basically,  you  are  evaluating every  pair  from  all  the  combinations. And  so  on,  k33  on. Yeah.  I  think  we need  to  add  a  minus  sign  here. I  forgot  to  add. All  the  gas  has  a  minus  sign  here. The  is  correct,  but  this  to  here. Please  add  a  minus  sign  here. At  the  minus  sign  in  front of  the  exponential. The  power  and  minus  sign. All  the  gan  you  need a  minus  sign  otherwise the  shape  is  different. When  you  cannot  find  the  P  P  transpose, separate,  then  you  do  this  combination. When  you  cannot  find  the  separate p.  If  you  cannot  find  P.  You  cannot  find  P, then  use  term  by  item.  Interne. After  doing  this,  we have  formed  the  kernel  metrics. KG.  This  K  G  is all  these  K  values  every  item. This  a  look.  You  calculate  every  term. And  eventually  you  form  the  big K.  To  do  the  estimation, basically  you  train  by suppose  you  want  to  use a  kernel  rich  regression. Kernel  rich  regression  means  you  need  to  add this  alpha  umber  inside  the  inverse. It  doesn't  change  the  dimension. The  i  is  the  same  dimension  of  k, so  they  can  sum, but  you  only  add  some diagonal  elements  small  values. Typically  less  than  one,  and  you  take inverse  and  it's better  condition  and  you  find  Alpha. After  looking  after  having  the  Alpha, you  just  multiply  by  training  nel. Sorry,  testing  nel.  Testing  nel can  be  formed  in  a  similar  way. Except  that  you  use  the  test  data. Convo  or  combination  difference. With  that  of  the  training  data. That  means,  every  training  data from  this  each  sample  of  test  set. Every  test  data  must  find the  lines  link  up  to  every  training  point. Sample  one  of  test, sample  two  of  test,  sample  three  of  test. You  get  a  testing  kernel,  KTS. I  think  I  should  just  use  KT  in  the  KDS, KT,  which  is  clear  enough.  Okay. You  can  find  the  test  nel. Again,  you  will  miss  the  minus  s  here. Please  add  it  Revis  revise  or  mot. You  can  see  that  for  this  guion  nel, we  can  e  two for  this  nel  rich  region, there  are  two  parameters. One  is  a  ached  parameter. The  factor. We  can  use  typically  very  small  value, much  less  than  one,  0.1  or  smaller. The  Sigma,  Sigma  is  this  value. This  sigma  in  a  gaussian  kernel  is  important. Sigma  typically  correspond  to the  width  or  sigma s.  Sigma  and  then  is  sed  below  here, correspond  to  the  width. The  bigger  the  sigma, the  wider  is  the  bell  shape. Sharp  bell  shaped,  very  small  sigma. Sh  small  Sigma  correspond  to  fine  data. Means  if  you  point point  distance  between  data  and  small, we  are  using  very  small  to  put  together. We  put  many  gulchion  together. Then  you  can  see  this  black nine  is  basically  is a  combination  of  all  small  gulchion, and  that  is  a  prediction  curve. This  plot  is  a  prediction curve  for  test  data. Tet  data  are  basically  interpreter  points. The  red  points  are  training  set. Test  set  basically  continuous nine  in  in  between  the  training  set. I  form  another  set. Test  sets  are  basically  in between  those  training  set. They  are  not  those  read  point. They  are  much  smaller  scale. They  are  different. If  you  use  a  big  Sigma, which  is  more  fat, you  can  see  the  curve  is  smooth. In  other  words,  we  are  using figma  and  put  together. Be  sigma  the  gusans  are  more  fat, so  they  sum  together and  they  form  more  smooth  curve. If  you  want  to  have  more  smooth  curve, not  so  accurate  but  more  smooth, then  you  use  big  big  sigma. If  you  want  very  accurate, but  tends  to  overfit, this  case  could  be  overfitting  because your  real  test  value  may  not  be so  changing  so  much. The  real  problem  in  practice  is  to  find a  suitable  sigma  value for  your  problem  for  prediction, not  for  testing,  and  not  for  training. Training,  you  can  always  get  100%. If  you  use  very  small  Sigma, you  can  get  100%, but  no  use  for  100%  training because  it  tends  to  overfit. You  need  to  strike  a  balance using  another  set called  validation  set  from  the  training  data. A  small  set,  take  out  from the  training  data  and  use  it  to  simulate testing  and  then  choose the  correct  Sigma  value. Then  you  can  predict  the  test  data. The  practical  problem  is  to  find appropriate  setting  of  Sigma in  this  guan  form. In  fact,  in  most  machine  learning  problem  is suitable  Sigma  or  some  other  parameter related  to  smoothness  of  curve. All  the  machine  learning mostly  overfitting  underfitting. Overfitting  means  your  curve  is very  fitting  the  training  data  very  well, but  overfit  the  training data,  cannot  predict  well. They  should  have  some  parameter  to either  make  it  more  smooth  or  more  fine. And  we  use  a  validation set  to  determine  what  to  choose. Because  we  don't  know  the  test  set, you  cannot  touch  the  test  set  at  all. Once  you  touch  the  test  set,  it's  data  decag. If  you  do  processing, including  this  test  set, it's  data  decag  Even  you may  not  use  it  directly. The  test  set  must  be  totally isolated  without  in  your  design, whatever  you  do  normalize, whatever  only  design,  and you  can  split  into  training  and  validation. You  try  here.  Then  you put  to  the  real  test  data. The  strict  to  be  observed  process. Otherwise,  you  may  have over  optimistic  results. The  results  including  this, and  you  think  it's  very  good, but  when  you  go  to  actual test  outside  this  data, you  get  very  inaccurate, inaccurate  because  of  data  if you  use  the  test  set  to  infer  in  training. And  next  case, this  actually  answer  the  question  just  now. The  question  about  how can  the  polynomal  skip? How  can  the  poly  polynomial  skip  P? You  can  form  k  by  skipping P.  The  beauty  of  kernel  is  you  can form  a  huge  polymal  size  of expansion  without involving  P,  without  knowing  P. This  is  the  answer. Basically,  in  point  mio. Remember  in the  vector  form,  it  is  basically  this. This  is  a  scaler,  so  you  can  take the  power  five  here,  x1x2. If  you  write  matrix  pm, because  every  element  also  you  do the  same  multiply  in the  product  between  x  one  and  x  two. K  one  is  x  one  and  x  two, K  one,  three,  x  one,  x  three,  and  so  on. You  can  compute  this, and  we  can  write  together using  element  wise  power. That  means  you don't  do  matrix  multiplication. You  use  the  power  on  every  element. This  circle  just  indicate  Element  wise  power. This  is  a  short  cut  of  writing short  cut  way  of  writing  the  math. Otherwise,  you  just  enumerate  everyone  like the  Gausan  that  we  mentioned  just  now. You  enumerate  everyone. You  enumerate  every  pa and  fill  in  one  by  one. Is  mostly  represented  in netail,  they  do  one  by  one. Okay. Using  this  element  wise  power. It's  not  a  normal  power. Normal  power  is  a  metric  multiply  many  times. But  this  is  inside everyone  take  power  individually. It's  a  huge  difference, and  then  we  can compute  the  same  thing  in  the  kernel. In  point  normals,  you  don't  need  to  evaluate p  in  k.  In  polynominal  kernel, you  just  compute  the  power  directly. You  don't  need  for  high  power, you  don't  need  to  enumerate all  the  pomal  expansion  terms. You  don't  need  to  know  all  p  terms. You  just  do  this  combined  form.  P  product. There  is  a  beauty  of  this  nel  formulation. After  all,  the  kernel  formulation boils  down  to  underdetermined  system. But  you  learn  one  thing, you  can  form  point  normal  kernels without  enumerating  the  power. And  there  is  a  little  bit  of difference.  Maybe Okay.  I  I  did  manage  to  find  that  p, but  maybe  I  see  whether  it's  in  at  three. It's  in  at  three. Remember,  these  are  the  p  terms. That's  a  different  symbol,  but they  are  actually  p  terms. If  you  evaluate  the  p  terms, and  you  get  a  kernel, basically  you  has  some  coefficient  here. The  difference  between  the kernel  evaluation  and the  P  evaluation  of Kernel  is  slightly  different in  terms  of  this  coefficient. But  basically,  these  coviions  are  in material  because  this  coviion will  be  absorbed  into  Alpha, taken  care  by  Alpha, and  then  translate  back  to  the  later. You  will  make  a  bigger  number  here  to  here, then  the  Alpha  becomes  smaller  in  some  plans. If  you  use  this  nel. But  if  you  use  the  original  nel, then  the  Alpha  will  take care  of  this  two,  whatever. That  is  the  only  difference. The  estimation  result  would  be  the  same. With  this,  I  think  are a  little  bit  more  and  I  close  this. The  final  part  is  after  estimating  the  G, whether  big  G  or  small  G, small  G  is  a  single  column  of  data. Big  G  is  a  mn,  mile  output. For  small  G,  you  just  need to  make  a  decision  threshold. If  you  use  the  data,  The  target  is  01, basically  the  output  will  be  somewhere  0-1, 0.1  -0.1,  and  1.1  of  values. Your  threshold  is  in  0-1,  just  0.5. If  your  target  is  plus  minus  one, then  the  threshold  is  zero. That  is  obvious. For  two  class  problem. For  multiple  class,  we use  the  one  encoding  for  y. Remember,  we  use  y If  class  one,  then  the  rest  are  zero. Class  two,  the  rest  of  zero,  and  so  on. Because  you  train  using these  zero  and  one  values. For  each  column  of  y. You  output  also  somewhere crowded  around  zero  and  one, and  they  are  f  because  everyone  train  0-1. The  outcome  is  all  these  columns  are  trained in  the  same  manner  on big  values  one  and  small  value  zeros, and  the  output  may  estimated output  may  be  something  like  1.1, 0.1,  0.2,  -0.1,  and  so  on. The  outcome  will  be  in  a  sense. In  determining  the  classification. The  class  the  data  belongs  to. We  try  to  identify  the  biggest  number. Because  they  are  trained  under one  and  zero  under  the  same  condition, so  the  biggest  number  will  stand  out. Your  prediction  number  will  depend on  the  bigger  numbers. The  bigger  number  falls  on first  column,  then  is  class  one. The  bigger  number  falls  on column  three  is  clus  three. This  is  maximum  value  of  the  column. Because,  you  have  multiple  columns correspond  to  multiple  y  columns. In  each  row  of  data,  the  biggest  value, the  column  position  determines  the  class. If  it's  still  not  so  clear, try  this  meta  code. On  the  data  you use  previously,  and  you'll  know  why. There  are  some  multiple  class  data previously  in  this  lecture  pi. And  two,  and  also  the  tone, and  you  see  the  output and  you'll  try  to  choose  the  matron. This  code  basically  exe  This  is  manually  do. But  nowadays  in  many  packages,  library, you  just  give  I  think  just  one  function, everything  is  done  for  you  internally  inside. But  I  think  it's  good  to  know  the  root, not  just  a  flying  the  surface, and  you  don't  know  what's  inside because  you  don't  know  inside, you  cannot  change  if  you  want  to  change. These  are the  not  so  difficult  things  to  change. Because  when  you  go  more deeper  and  deeper  and  deep  learning, there  are  more  and  more  things that  you  cannot  change. That  means  you  are more  and  more  things  you  don't  know, then  we  lost  control. So  we  try  to  get  to  know more  and  more  things  instead of  giving  away  everything  to  machine. That  become  dangerous. Later.  This  accumulates,  all  right? Generation  to  generation. Okay.  All  right. So  we  have  ended  this  five. Actually,  I  slow  enough so  that  you  should  have enough  time  to  think  and understand  and  connect  to  three  and  four. And  we  will  also  move  on  to  lecture  six. And  let's  take  maybe  5  minutes  break. All  right. Because  we  are  a  bit  shortage  of  time. Take  a  break  first  and we  come  back  5  minutes  later. Okay. Hello.  Hello.  Can  you  hear? Hello.  Okay. Let's  get  back  to  lecture. Let's  move  on  to  lecture. So  previous  lecture,  Basically, Lecture  five  are  based on  regression  learning. There's  a  standard  procedure  that almost  every  course  teach every  course  teaches. The  only  different  thing  is that  basically  they  are over  under  determined  systems, but  they  are  elevated  to  different  models, polynominal,  kernels, and  di  starting  point  of  formulation. This  class,  we  are  moving  on  to class  equation  in  analytic  way. Basically,  we  want  to  introduce  a  way  to solve  the  classification  error  directly. This  has  not  been  able  to solve  in  analytic  form. But  numerically,  yes. But  in  analytic, it  has  not  been  attempted  directly. Right.  It  all  results  in an  iterative  solution  in  classical  way. We'll  introduce  two  solutions. One  is  total  rate, one  is  the  AUC  solution, both  belongs  to  classification. Total  error  rate  can  be  binary  problems, and  also  multi  class  problem. AUC,  we  only  have  the  binary  solution. AUC  is  difficult  to  be  formulated  in mult  category  case because  the  formulation  itself, the  cost  function  is  not  well  defined. It's  difficult  to  define. Because  of  the  complexity. You  cannot  have  combination  of all  the  classes  easily. And  eventually  we'll  we'll go  through  the  last  part  faster. It  just  show  you  the  relations among  all  the  solutions you've  learned  so  far. They  are  all  interconnected. And  this  interconnection  is just  by  changing  the  data. That's  a  basic  concept  that we  want  to  convey  to  you. And  I  think  in  the  part  four, you  only  need  to  know  the  concept  wise, you  don't  have  to know  the  detailed  deliberation. The  metabatic.  It  has  linked. Sometimes  a  bit  mess in  terms  of  the  notation  wise. But  anyway,  just  know  the  global  concept. But  the  total  error  rate  in  AOC, you  need  to  know  much  more  detail because  this  is  the  core  solution. Basically,  in  lecture  five, we  basically  use  the  error  magnitude. Remember  error  error  square, the  two  vectors  error  square. Is  basically  y  minus  g.  G  is  linear  function. It's  error  mantue. But  a  more  matching  approach  is  to  direct probably  the  classification  matrix and  use  it  as  a  learning  objective. We  want  classification.  Why  not we  optimize  classification  directly. Formally  even  now  nowadays, we  still  use  regression learn  and  then  convert to  threshold  and  then you  get  the  count  the  errors, or  you  approximate  using some  functions  and  we  will see  those  functions  approx. But  we  can  find a  close  form  solution  to  this  form actually  if  we  know  how to  manipulate  the  data. We  are  going  to  go  through  two  solutions. The  concept  is  we  want  to  formulate cross  directly  and  optimize this  class  without going  through  the  third  party. Previously,  we  learned  regression  and then  convert  to  classification  by  threshold. Two.  Now  we  want  to  do  directly. To  do  it  directly,  there are  several  trials  in  the  literature. We  are  not  going  to  aborate  them  and many  of  them  turns  out  to be  some  other  problem that  become  a  numerical  problem. We  are  still  using  most  of  them. So  it  has  to  be  solved  numerically. And  not  analytically  in  a  conventional  way. Over  here,  we  try  to  introduce  total  rate and  the  AUC  method  to  solve it  in  one  step  in  a  closed  bond. We  already  know  in  Nature  four, what  is  total  rate? Total  rate  is  basically normalized  a  for  each  class, false  positive  rate,  and  false  negative  rate. Basically,  it  is  a  sum  of  negative  data, negative  data,  going  over. Native  data,  you  minus  one, the  values  to  be  sm.  Smaller  than  zero. But  if  your  resold  set  at  zero, Native  if  you  learn  minus  one, the  values  should  be  smaller  than threshold,  smaller  than  zero. But  it  go  over. The  outcome  of  your  learning  over. If  it's  over,  it  means  error. This  sample  is  error, it  has  a  fall  above  the  threshold, then  it  will  be  counted  as  a  error later  in  the  final  stage. That  is  called  five. Native  samples  counter  as  positive  sample. F  positive  error. Rate  means  you  normalize by  the  number  of  negative  samples. F  f  negative  rate  means  positive  samples. Falls  below  the  threshold. Positive  samples  to  be higher  value,  but  it  falls  below. So  it  will  be  counted  as  negative  samples, so  it's  f  negative  samples and  normalized  by  all  the  positive  number, the  size  of  positive  samples. We  need  to  define  this  as  the  cost  function, and  we  try  to  minimize this  total  error  rate  directly. We  can  see  that  there's a  symmetry between  one  is  bigger  than  threshold, one  is  smaller  than  threshold. You  can  see  the  two  parts  here. F  positive  rate  and  fs  negative  bad. One  should  not  be  big  th, one  should  not  be  smaller  thansh. We  want  to  combine  this  bigger and  smaller  into one  because  we  want  to have  only  one  cose  function. We  can  basically  normalize  or  flip  the  data. How  do  we  flip  the  data? First,  we  define  an  error  term. If  this  error,  bigger  than Trish  we  can  write  this. We  can  write  this  thresh, or  you  can  write  the  threshold over  together  with  g  or  sorry. This  g  bigger  than  threshold. We  can  we  can  carry  the  threshold  over  to the  left  hand  side  and  it becomes  g  minus  thresh. You  can  use  this.  For  the  other  one, we  also  write  one to  write  in  terms  of  bigger  than  zero, we  carry  g  over  the  other  side. I  becomes  smaller  than zero,  bigger  than  zero. Both  are  bigger  than  zero  now. The  equality  sign  is  numerical. We  can  treat  it  as  a  numerical  problem, and  we  just  push to  one  side  during  the  competition. Both  side,  if  you  use  this  different  era, defining  different  G  minus  t  and  t minus  g  for  positive, negative  data  respectively. G  minus  t  for  negative, Tag  for  positive  data. We  can  write  the  same  direction  of bigger  than  zero  for  this  error  function. The  lost  function  need  to count  only  in  one  direction, bigger  than  zero. Remember,  we  introduce  the  loss  function this  way,  we  count  the  error. Smaller  than  sm  than  if  the  margin, negative  number,  negative  margin, count  left  side,  right  side  do  count. But  we  can  do  it  otherwise. In  this  case,  we  can  do  bigger  than  zero. C  here.  No  count  here. Either  your  lost  function can  be  formulated  on the  left  side  wise  or  right  side wise,  depends  on  what  it  is. You  want  to  count  the  margin, then  you  use  the  left  side  step  function. If  you  want  to  count  this error,  this  error  here, defined  by  these  two  values, then  we  use  the  right  step  function. Right  sided  one. Because  they're  in  the  same  direction, we  can  minimize  together because  they  are  on  the  same  side. If  you  flip  the  optimize  one  minimize. Now  we  flip  the  same  direction. The  first  alignment  we  need  to  do. We  need  to  flip  the  two  counting  process. One  is  g  minus, one  is  minus,  reverse  counting. For  positive  and  negative  data. We  can  minimize  the  tr  by formulating  a  cost  function  loss, counting  those  error  bigger  than  zero. Defined  by  these  two different  number  of  a  stent. One  is  g  minus  t, one  is  minus  g. Then  you  can  you can  use  the  lost  function  by  this  one. Basically,  this  black  curve  is  the  counting. Bigger  than  zero,  the  g  minus  tile  or  ti minus  g.  Minus  g, bigger,  we  count  it  as  an  error. Be  it  crossed  over  the  boundary. So  that's  the  original  formulation, but  this  function  is  not differentiable  at  this  point. There's  no  gradient  at this  point  or  infinity  or  undefined. The  gradient  is  zero  here.  Every  point. Either  zero  or undefined.  We  cannot  differentiate. We  cannot  use  calculus. We  cannot  use  calculus  to  minimize. We  have  to  use  some  approximation. Basically, the  traditional  way  is  to  approximate it  is  very  natural  to  approximate this  st  function  by  a  Sigmoid  function. This  call  a  sigmoid  function. This  sigma  assumption  is beautiful  because  it  resembles  the  step, and  you  can  adjust this  gradient  to  very close  to  the  step  function, and  the  whole  curve  is  still  differentiable. You  can  adjust  the  gradient  to  be  very  steep, or  very  gentle  by  adjusting the  Sigma  by  adjusting this  value  to  a  to  have  different  curve. This  Sigma  was  very  popular  at the  original  formulation  of  neural  network, the  earliest  new  network. I  I  think  after  1940s,  maybe  around,  70s. Around  70s  back  popagation  has  came out  and  they  mo  use  Sigma. 70s,  60s, the  provocation  theory  already  out  70s, there  was  a  thesis about  this  algorithm  using  Simon. But  this  sigmoid  also has  quite  similar  problem with  the  step  function. Because  the  sigmoid  has almost  zero  gradient  in many  points  unless  you use  a  very  gentle  sigmoid. If  you  use  a  step  sim, it  has  similar  problems with  the  step  function. The  first  problem,  but  it  solves the  smoothness  problem  because  it's differentiable  every point  throughout  the  whole  space, whole  space  of  x.  I  solve  one  problem, but  this  problem  keep  the  same. But  also  it  introduced  some  other  problem. At  this  problem,  not  a  new problem  because  even  if you  use  the  original  state, you  also  have  the  local  solution  problem. Remember,  your  cost  function  is  nothing  but just  summation  of  many  error  function. Even  total  error  rate  or  whatever, g  minus  or  minus  G  or  whatever. If  you  use  a  sigmoid  function, I  mean  you  sound  many  sigmoid. I  sound  man  simi  in  one  dimension, it  looks  like  it  looks  like  this. It  may  be  many  local  solutions. But  you  can  see  many  sigmoid in  every  small  pieces. This  is  one  sigmoid.  But  inverted. I  just  add  minus  sign,  you  invert. One  simi.  This  is  the  original  sigmoid. It's  a  final  of  many  sim. This  many  semi  because it's  a  nonlinear  formulation, it  introduced  many  local  optimum  points. Over  here,  you  can  see  at  least  two, and  there  are  some  maximum  points  here. All  these  points  at  by  grad  equal  to  zero. Which  point  are  you  going  to  choose? That  was  the  first  problem introduced  in  the  earlier  net. Even  now,  But  it  doesn't  mean  that today  we  have  solved the  global  problem  for  solution  for  network. No.  The  earlier  problem wasn't  solved  because  the  data  set  was  small. Any  of  these  solutions if  it's  not  low  enough, may  not  fit  your  prediction. Well.  But  nowadays,  we  didn't  solve, but  we  have  so  much  data and  so  much  minimum  point, and  many  minium  point, give  you  solution  that  human  cannot  detect the  big  error  beyond  a  human  resolution. The  problems  still  there,  but  we  have much  more  complicated  data  to fit  and  many  solutions in  our  eyes  looks  okay. But  if  you  use  microscope  may  not  okay, but  then  it's  enough  for our  application.  This  is  the  situation. The  underlying  theory  still  doesn't change  over  the  many  years. But  we  have  a  lot  of  machine  and data  that  we  have  seen  in  the  first  ture. Obviously,  Sigmoid  cannot  solve  analytically. It  improves  the  situation of  having  a  gradient. Many  deep  learning  still  using Sigmoid  also  still  workable, because  there  are  so  much  data, you  don't  really  care  which  minimum  you  get. As  long  as  good,  good for  your  application,  it's  fine. We  have  so  much  data  to  feed. But  if  you  really  want  to get  the  global  optimum, then  it's  still  not  a  and  we  don't  know which  whether  your  solution is  global  it's  Numerical. There's  no  met  to  prove  it. That's  a  problem  using  Sigmoid. Simo  is  basically  this  function. I  think  this  notation  also, I  think  you  can  remove  this  one. You  just  sigmoid  of  absolute  I because  it's  not  a  logical expression  for  this  function. I  think  I  remove  them  and  put  the  version to  only  for  this  page. The  next  few  sides, basically  raise  the  problem. There  are  so  many  local  solutions, still  not  easy  to  solve, and  the  local  plats. Plato  means  many  of these  gradient  are  still  near  zero. You  don't  know  whether  it  is  medium  point or  just  inflection  point. You  just  stuck  there.  Gradient  almost  zero, your  algorithm  cannot  move. Your  algorithm  cannot  move  much. You  mostly  get  stuck. That's  earlier  days. Nowadays,  there  are  many  ways to  push  through  and  get  some  local  solution. Regularization  is  one  of  them. Regularization  we  teach  you  one  way, those  skipping  and  all  are also  belong  to  similar  regularization. But  we  will  not  cover  that  in  this  course. Si  approach,  approximation  often associated  with  these  two  problems. Many  local  solutions, if  you  have  small  data  set, your  result  may  not  be  good  enough. Local  pets,  you  get  stuck, and  you  get  up  somewhere  very  early, you  will  not  get  very  good results,  more  worst  results. How  do  we  get  to  solving  the  global  solution? In  mathematics,  we  always  fall  back to  and  this  has  been developed  I  think  quite  early  also, I  think  around  70s,  80s. There's  something called  link  and  loss  function. Lost  function  is  what you  lost  function  for  fast. Link  function  is  the  model. We  have  the  model.  We  have the  lost  function  match. There  are  certain  methematical  ways of  describing match  one  popular  match  is basically  linear  link  and  chatic  loss. You  will  have  a  global  solution. In  future,  if  you  want,  you  find some  other  matches  pair and  you  can  formulate  them, you  also  can  find  global  solutions. But  this  is  the  easiest  way.  All  right. We  try  to  use  a  retic  and  linear  link. Linear  function  we  learned. We  learned  polynomial,  we  learn  nel, they  have  dinear  parameters. Polynomial  is  dine  with respect  to  the  pomal  terms  the. Nel,  Dinar  respect  to  Alpha. So  it's  a  perfect  model  for  us. Cratic  loss?  We  also  learn  do  it  all  a  while. Regression,  regression,  square  loss, square  area  loss  is  quadratic  loss. Basically,  this  curve,  this  blue  curve, this  blue  curve  is  a  one  to  choose. But  why  nobody  choosing? Y  no  Qard  cost loss  for  ctation  is  not  possible. Because  logically,  if your  estimation  is  too  big, the  x  value  estimation  is  too  big, you  as  high  value, and  low  value  also  high  value. Because  these  are  quart. Both  ends  of  estimation  goes  to  high  value. Classification,  we  need  one  high  one  low. Either  this  high  this  low  or this  high  this  low.  It's  fine. You  need  to  define  one  high  one  low  because correct  correct  means  low, incorrect  means  high  high  error, or  you  want  to  correct high,  incorrect  wrong,  also. That's  a  step  function.  Step  function is  one  high,  one  low. It  cannot  be  too  high. That's  not  logical,  and  that's w  nobody  do  that. But  there's  a  trick  to  do  that  to make  these  two  ends  of  hight  work. The  trick  is  originally or  the  original  porting  is centered  at  the  middle. What  we  need  is  basically  push accord  to  either  left  side  or  right  side. So  that  you  use only  one  You  use  only  one  arm. You  use  one  side  of  the  arm, high  and  near  zero. We  don't  use  further. Further  is  up  again. We  use  half.  Either  use  this  half or  this  half.  How  to  do  that? We  can  push  the  data. The  center  becomes. For  this  case,  I  push  it  to  the. You  can  push  to  the  right  also. Basically  is  to  add  an  offset  to  your  error. You  can  push  the  curve  to  one  side. And  you  bias  errors  to  one  side  and you  force  the  data  to  fall in  between  one  side. There  is  a  trick.  It  still  can  be  used. This  is  just  a  trick to  play  with  data and  the  properties  of  your  function. Basically,  you  include  a  a  push the  data  to  one  side  and  take  square  again. You  know  that  the  error is  basically  a  linear  function. Suppose  a  pomal  function,  P  t  x, linear  function,  and  then just  plus  something  constant, it  won't  affect  your  solution. It's  also  easy  to  solve  as the  regression.  It's  the  same  solution. But  now  there  is  a  difference  here. We  can  see  the  solution will  make  a  difference. The  two  here  is  basically  to  normalize the  square  B  two  terms  together. We  can  form  a  minimization  form  for total  error  rate  by  the  curve  to  one  s, by  pushing  the  curve  to  one  side, in  this  case,  last at  means  push  to  left  side. By  pushing  the  curve, your  error  to  one  side,  and  take  a  square. Make  a  square  here.  You  can see  there's  nothing  much added  except  the  offset. The  offset  term  can  be  combined  together. This  can  be  grouped  together, and  the  rest  of  optimization  is  the  same, except  that  you  split  the  data into  two  positive, negative  class,  and do  the  optimization  separating. The  solution  is  very  similar to  the  regression  solution. I'm  not  going  to  the  details. Basically,  you  also  make the  first  tive  equal  to  zero, and  you  know  it's  quadratic. You  know  the  optimum  point  is the  global  global  solution. These  are  basically  two normal  solutions,  normal  equation. Both  of  them  are  similar  to  no, but  they  are  splitted  into  positiveive  data. Same  as  what  you've  seen  in the  gration  solution,  and  we  have  the  bias, the  regularization  term corresponding  to  minimizing the  mini  risk  gation. Solving  this,  you'll  get this  covariance  and  this  term. This  looks  familiar  because the  difference  between  this  solution  and reglation  solution  is  regrion  combine  these two  in  the  one. Causation  just  split  them  into different  classes  and  do  separating. The  split  has  different  targets. You  can  think  of  this  as  y  minus  y  plus. You  can  see  one  is  minus  one  minus  eta, t  minus  eta,  one  is  plus  eta. One  is  bigger  value  than  the  other. We  call  this  y  plus  and  Y  minus. Basically,  this  one  is minimizing  with  y  minus. This  one  is  targeting  y plus.  But  do  it  together. It's  basically  two  splitted  target. But  this  solution  is  the  global  solution for  minimizing  the  total  error, which  is  class  specific  normalized  error. We  normalize  with  respect  to  each  class, with  respect  to  ps  native  and  plus  psi, divided  by  n  minus  and  n  plus  n  plus  n  minus. Divided  by  no  with respect  to  each  n  plus  and  n  minus  classes. This  is  class  specific  normalization. This  m  minus  n  plus. Basically, the  normalize  respect  to  which  class. This  is  the  definition  of  T also  class  normalization  TR. And  so  this  is  the  solution. Now,  we  want  to  pack  them  into  matrics and  vector  form  so that  you  can  cote  them  easily. We  group  all  those  individual  summations. This  and  this  summation of  these  vectors  basically can  be  packed  in  matrix  form. P  controls  P  is basically  the  summation  of  the Summation  of  this  each  row  of p  in  the  product  between  in  row of  p.  In  the  product, and  then  you  put together  is  basically  a  matrix  covariance. Then  for  the  other  term, is  basically  you  multi because  the  sum  by  itself. So  you  basically  multiply  one  vector  and you  sum  every  row  of  the P.  Some  of  the  columns  within each  rule  of  the  p.  We  can define  this  as  y  minus  and  this  as  y  plus. And  it  can  be  written  in  this  if  you write  this  y  in  place of  one,  it's  also  possible. Y  minus  and  plus  if  you  want. And  this  is  a  solution  for two  class  binary  problem. For  multiple  class, we  just  take  every  solution  together. But  we  need  to  know  that  each  P  is  different because  during  the  one  hot  encoding  of  y. The  size  of  p  for  negative  c  and positive  class  are  different for  optimization, each  column  of  the  Y  correspond to  different  number  of  one  and  zero. Suppose  you  have  this  y  one,  one,  zero,  zero, suppose  we  have  three  class, and  then  00011000. For  column  one,  we  have 22  and  maybe  many  more  zeros. Then  for  class  two,  31  and  20. You  can  see  the  p  changes  because  p is  P  is  each  row  of  data, and  each  row  correspond  to these  one  and  zero. The  P  size  of positive  and  negative  numbers  change. This  is  a  P  plus  p  plus  rule, P  plus  p  plus  rule and  P  minus  rule  p  minus  three  p  minus  rule. This  data  correspond  to the  positive  class  and  you  have to  arrange  according  to  the  y. For  class  one,  You have  two  class  one  and  three  class  two, that's  it  other  class. For  class  two,  for  class  two, you  have  two  non  class  two, and  three  cl  two. Three  claus  two  and  two no  class  class  one,  and  so  on. So  you  can  see  this  p  size  changes for  each  column  of  the  output. So  you  can  see  this  p  pk. It's  not  a  common  p  now. And  for  each  C  number  of  plus. We  are  stacking  this  answer  together. The  rest  of  this  is  basically to  pack  this  together. Because  these  are  evaluated  individually. We  can  pack  this  together. We  can  introduce  a  n  plus  n  minus  matrix and  multiply  by  a  common P.  N  plus  and  n  minus  is  the  weight  for  P, the  weighing  matrix  for  P.  It's  a  weighted  p. So  n  plus  M  is  just  the  weight  the  p. N  plus  n  minus  is  basically just  a  upper  diagonal  or  lower  igonal. To  correspond  to  each  class. In  practice,  you  do  not  need to  separate  the  two  group or  organize  or  sort  them  out. You  don't  have  the  sort.  You  can the  n  plus  and  n  minus, but  your  y  must  be  corresponding  to the  row  of  the  p.  Same  as  one  hot. This  row  of  p  belong  to this  one  hot  must  be  the  same. Your  n  plus  one  is  the  same. This  row  belong  to this  row  belong  to  m  minus, but  you  can  mix  them, but  y  must  mix  together, y  and  p,  must  mix  together. But  if  you  want  to  make  it  simple, you  just  split  it  into  this and  the  y  also  split  into this  split  into  two  half  for  this  one, two  half  upper  and  lower. Then  it's  easier.  Up  to  your  implementation. But  for  simplicity,  you  just  need  to correspond  between  y  and  p  p  role. With  this  alignment,  we  get a  metric  that  try  to multiply  P  on  both  sides. Try  to  multiply  the  P. That  some  part  of  P  we  don't  do  cl  minus, some  part  of  p  beyond  the  plus  plus, and  corresponding  to  the  y  also. F  for  each  This  is  for  binary,  small  wine. And  we  also  can  estimate  the  whole  thing. The  only  difference  is  we add  into  this  weight. The  M  is  basically  is  the  weight. For  p.  The  weight  for  each  class. That  means  that  one  over n  plus  and  one  over  n plus  n  minus  for  each  class. They  are  weighted  differently for  total  size  of  the  data. And  that  must  align  with  that of  for  each  class  in  the  y. Basically  total  error rate  minimization  solution boils  down  to  weighted  square. This  solution  is  weighted  square. For  multiple  class, we  the  solution  and  we  note  that the  M  and  P  are different  for  each  column  of  y. Okay.  And  I  think an  example  can  clear  a  lot  of  your  doubt. But  if  you  go  and simulate  this  example,  right. So  I  hope  you  can just  you  can  scan this  easily  into  your  computer,  right? And  then  you  can  try  to  simulate  in  and see.  This  is  not  met. This  is  basically  the  python. The  code  is  provided. First,  Python  is  easy  to  fit  in  point  normal. If  you  want  to  do  a  point  normal  transform directly  without  using  kernel, then  point  normal  is  simple. Ij  to  generate  a  point  no  feature, suppose  you  want  the  third  order. You  just  put  a  tree  here. And  then  you  you  generate the  P  matrix  and  test  matric. P  t  is  test  matric. This  encoding  is  very  easy. But  for  preparing  your  pi  two  and  exam, use  it  to  hand  calculate  these  values. I  hope  you  go  back  to  code  this  so  that you  enjoy  without  writing  all  the  elements. Because  you  enjoy  this  in  real  data  in big  size  in  your  work  or  in  your  research. This  can  scale. These  are  just  small  examples, but  then  you  put  the  big  data. But  of  course  scaling  depends  on your  matrix  is  singular  or  not  singular  data. And  try  to  find  out  print  out  what  is  P  and P.  These  are  big  enough. It's  good  to  practice  even  smaller  size like  two  or  three  samples. And  then  you  can  close  it  and  use  hand. That  will  give  you a  good  practice  for  quiz  two  and  Qi  Qi, maybe  not  quiz  is  but maybe  you  don't  need  this  part  and  exam. In  quiz  one,  you  have  tasted  it, You  have  done  those  calculations to  get  the  answer. It  will  be  similar  in  the  next  two  Q  two and  exam.  All  right. Here,  you  have  the  code  for  training  the  TR, the  TR  solution,  and  code  for  prediction. Code  for  the  prediction,  training  and  test. And  the  code,  I  try to  pack  them,  the  training. I  try  to  pack  them  using  the  Mm. And  then  you  have  the  primer  and  dual  easily. But  if  I  use  the  previous  single  solution, then  the  code  will  become  very  messy. They  all  give  similar  solutions, but  then  this  is  a  packing  of  everything together.  And  for  testing. Use  this  program  for slightly  bigger  issue  that  you don't  have  to  do  and  calculation, but  use  it  for  small  dimension to  verify  by  hand. Or  if  you  explain  every  step and  read  out  every  matrix,  you  can  check. And  Map  maybe  even  easier. M  If  you  have  Mb  translate  this  into  M  by  AI. I  think  you'll  get  very  very accurate  translation,  whatever  software. But  anyway,  the  python  is  free, use  it  and  get  used  to  it  because  in  future, your  work  will  involve  more and  more  python  than  meth. This  is  a  result  of  this  prediction. Initially,  I  have  this  data  for  training. Square  and  circle  training  data. I  use  the  imbalance  cls  means we  have  three  square  points  for training  and  two  black  circle  dots for  training  also  five  points. It's  kind  of  imbalance  and  you  can  get a  z  balance  compared if  you  want  to  compare  with  the  regression. For  TR  and  if  you  have  imbalance, you  can  differentiate  easily from  regression  because  it  can  count. But  for  balance  class, because  the  one  over n  plus  and  minus  are  the  same, then  there's  no  difference between  regression  and  tR. Only  n  plus  n  minus  di  a  lot  differ  by  a  lot, then  you  can  see the  difference  in  decision  boundary. And  am  won't  ask you  to  plot  the  dision  boundary, but  in  practice,  it's  good to  try  to  plot  dision  boundary. If  you  don't  know  how  to  plot  as  AI, I  think  AI  can  give  you  now  quite  accurately. This  is  to  give  you  a  visualized  result. And  solving  problem  by visualizing  the  result  will improve  so  called  checking ventilation  of  your  result. And  also  our  feeling  of the  algorithm  and  we can  you  can  have a  sense  of  whether the  result  is  correct  or  incorrect. If  your  understanding  is  correct. Usually  if  our  understanding  is  accurate, mostly,  the  result  would  match. Except  for  some  cases  like numerical  issues  in  computer, floating  point  errors, that  means  one  more  For  example, I  think  one  student  write out  one  solution  in  3.9,  right? There's  question  3.9. The  matrix  is  non  square, but  it's  very  near  to  square, and  you  take  inverse, then  the  result  in  result in  in  different  version  has different  because  this  runs into  numerical  conditioning. The  inverse  has  problem. The  rank  is  not  full.  Under  this  condition, your  result  will  not  be  accurate, very  difficult  to  get  same  for  everyone. We  also  in  practice, we  need  to  know  this  problem. We  always  encounter  numerical  issues  as  well. We  need  to  know  whether  it's  theoretical issue  or  numerical  issue, and  how  to  overcome. To  overcome  this,  you  increase the  data  to  make  it  p  or  f, and  then  make  it  either  over  or  under effect  then  you  use  much  better p  e  over  determine  system. These  are  the  what  you  learned  in the  previous  lecture  and  quiz  one. This  is  what  all  these  examples  serve the  purpose  of  helping to  understand  the  concept. In  this  course,  you  need  to  know  how to  calculate  simple  calculations by  hand  and  the more  important  is  still  by  concept because  there  are  many  MCQ  questions that  test  on  concept, and  some  can  be  tricky. If  you  have  this  you  have  stronger  feeling. If  you  know  that  is  strong, then  we  can  revise your  thinking  again.  Right. That's  about  T  R.  The  next  one, we  are  going  to  talk  about  AUC,  AUC  learning. The  AUC  also  is  one  of the  important  metrics  used in  classification  area  under  the  ROC  curve. I  think  if  you  go through  some  biden  course  or  project, AUC  is  one  of  the  measures  as  well. Of  course,  we  just  use  AUC. We  just  use  the  function  library  for  Python. It's  just  you  don't know  what  they  are  calculating, but  you  know  that  is  accuracy  measure. That's  all. But  we  want  to  know  more  here and  we  can  optimize  AUC  directly. Optimize  a  parameter  directly  to  AUC. Conventionally,  zing  AUC  is the  same  problem  as  optimizing  the  error  TR. We  need  to  use  numerical approximation  Dsigmo. Of  course,  more  advanced  one they  use  a  hinge  function. Those  are  numerical.  We  want  to  solve AUC  also  in  closed  b,  similar  to  TR. This  is  not  you cannot  see  this  in  conventional  books. The  error  rate  error  rate, strictly  speaking,  depends on  the  threshold  value because  you  need  a  function  to treshd  to  be  above the  curve  or  below  the  curve. For  T  R  total  error  rate, we  don't  need  to  tres  physically, but  the  threshold  is  set  up here.  In  your  formulation. So  your  threshold  is  embedded into  your  cost  function. Youthreshold  is  embedded  into your  objective  function  here. Can  you  see  this? We  put  the  threshold  at  the  beginning. You  can  set  any  value  zero  or  some  other. But  depend  on  your  target, if  your  target  is  minus  one  and  one, you  better  set  according  to  zero  and  zero. If  you  zero  and  one,  then  you  set  0.5. These  are  embedded  and  set  by  you. Threshold  is  optimum.  You  don't  have  to  move. But  in  regression,  you can  move  the  threshold, you  don't  know  where is  the  optimal  threshold. This  is  the  difference  between TR  and  regression. You  set  everything  in  advance  and  you  get the  solution  straight  away  and this  optimal  solution. The  best  solution  because  this is  the  best  way  to  solve  this. All  the  positive  point  will  be  here, or  negative  point  will  be  here. It  will  be  separated  by high  and  low  optimally. And  that  was  one  threshold. But  in  AC  is  many  threshold. Remember  the  plot  of  the  LLC  is  in  four. You  have  an  curve  and  curve. The  two  curve,  one  over  the  other, you  get  the  OC  curve  like  this. But  if  one  minus  this  axis, you  get  c  this. The  usual  z  looks  like  this. I  forgot  what  is  FNR  here. This  is  one  of  the  error  rate, but  this  is  a  two positive  or  two  negative  rate, I  forgot,  I  think. Suppose  TNR,  then  this  is  PR. Check  this  is  not. Check  four. Every  point,  correspond  to  one  threshold. ROC,  basically,  you  are looking  at  the  whole  curve and  basically  at  the  area  underneath  it, and  that's  called  AUC. It's  an  overview. That  means  correspond  to  alli. That  means  the  classifier, you  set  every  threshold  if  the  C  maximized, that  means  every  threshold  is  optimized. Operating  threshold  means  if  you want  very  strict  application, for  example,  banking,  you  do  not want  many  forse  acceptance,  for  positive. Banking  means  your  fingerprint  or  your  face. If  you  say  high  positive,  what  does  it  mean? Anyone  with  very  close  face can  go  into  positively  recognize. That  is  dangerous.  Banking,  we want  very  low  force  positive. Low  force  t  could be  prone  to  the  curve  of  one  end. Left  side  or  right  side. It  depends  on  how  you  axis  defined. But  your  hand  phone  recognition, do  you  want  to  be  very  strict  like  banking. View  the  camera. You  cannot  get  that is  very  strict  too  strict. You  may  prefer  high  force s  and  low  force  negative. That  means  it  will  not  reject you  easily,  accept  you  easily. But  you  will  accept many  times  wrongly,  possibly. For  convenience  in  application, you  do  not  want  to  set  very  strictly. This  receiver  operating  curve  cater  for  all. If  you  want  to  do  this,  you choose  a  lower  point  later, the  press  higher  or lower  to  the  left  or  to  the  right. That  means  force  for  or  force  negative, depends  on  your  application. Okay. So  ROC  provide  this  and  then  you choose  threshold  according  to  what  you  need. If  you  want  a  band, you  choose  somewhere  in  the  middle. AUC  is  a  natural  alternative because  it's  just  one  value. ROC  is  occur  many  points  to  optimize. So  you  optimize  the  area, which  is  already  account  for  every  point. So  D  AUC  optimization, we  need  to  formulate  AUC  in  close  bond. The  AUC  must  be  formulated  as  a  function. Previously,  we  just  brought AUC  point  by  point. We  can't  get  a  function. Luckily,  we  can  find this  recurs  man  widely  statistic, which  is  this  equation, which  is  some  of all  combinations  of  this  passive  and  points, g  plus  minus  c  minus. That  means  predicted  as  positive, minus  those  predicted  negative. And  you  count  those  positive are  higher  than  negative  the  error. Those  pred  wrongly  don't  count. The  more  counts  of  this  combination  between positive  and  negative  pass is  higher  AUC  value. That  means  more  pas, AUC  is  basically  a  sum  of  pass, pairs  of  these  values that  are  ranked  correctly. That  means  G  plus  is  higher  than  g  minus. If  your  prediction  g  plus is  lower  than  g  minus  is  wrong. These  are  count  as  error. AO  count  the  correct  one,  is  a  maximization. But  we  don't  want  to  do maximization  because  we  have the  habit  of  minimization according  to  our  books. We  can  convert  easily.  We  just  switch  over. You  just  switch  over  G  minus  minus  g  plus. Swap  over. Then  it  become  AC, you  minus  swap  the  two. Whatever,  maximization  and  minimization are  the  same  problem,  but  just  two  side. You  can  change  this  by  adding  a  minus  sign. We  solve  AAC  instead  of  AUC, but  we  still  call  it  AUC  later because  the  literate  all  call  AUC  solution. Same  thing. AUC  is  basically  a  summation  of  pa. This  summation  go  over  every  combination  of p.  All  the  combinations. That  means  n  plus  data  and  mine  data, and  you  are  just  combining or  maybe  doing  illustration. Suppose  you  have  these  five  points  of positive  points  with  these  negative  points. You  are  learning  G. G  may  be  something  like  this. If  you  use  DN,  it  can  be higher  value  and  lower  values  a  plain. Sp  points. Maybe  red  points  higher and  blue  points  are  lower. Basically,  what  we  need  to do  is  to  find  the  combinations. These  are  the  real  data, but  your  predicted  value  may  be  different. Predicted  value  may  be you  may  predict  wrongly this  point  as  great point  because  it's  higher. You  may  predict  suppose you  pre  also  these  two  points  wrongly. You  use  these  predicted  points to  combine  with  the  opposite  plus. G  of  this  point  compare  with  the  other  point. Because  this  is  predicted  as  a  g  plus  g minus  g  minus  and  you  subtract  will  use  A, C  is  g  plus  minus g  minus  points,  every  every  pass. Because  this  one  predicted  as  I'm  sorry. The  other  point. So  only  you  predicted  red  Point, pay  with  predicted  blue  points. Okay. And  same  thing  you  also  pay up  other  red  Point  and  Blue  Points? Point  and  blue  points. These  are  predicted  blue  points. Everyone.  You  calculate  all  the, not  just  these  two  points, all  all  of  them,  all  combinations. These  are  all combination  of  predicted  points. Then  you  can  compute  the  AUC  numerically. Basically,  we  convert  the  maximum  point to  minimum  point  called  AAC. Then  these  combinations  are  enumerated. This  is  basically  the  model  position. G,  G  is  P. Now  we  can  take  factorize  the out  because  we  want  to  solve  the  t, and  we  still  use  the  same at  loss  function  and  plus  and  upset  Ata. We  shift  the  tic  so  that  we  push the  data  to  one  side  and  only  one  side, high  error,  low  era, and  we  don't  use  the  other  side  of  the  cot. Same  strategy  as  the  TR. We  basically  do  the  same  strategy  as DR  and  we  do  the  minimization. The  rest  is  basically  trying to  do  the  evaluation  to  optimize. This  basically  trying  to  say  that the  ordering  is  correct  or  incorrect, will  be  the  order  is  incorrect,  ph. Order  is  correct,  push up  on  this  project  curve. Basically,  we  did  a  simulation  here. Those  rate  points  are whenever  the  error  is  less  than  zero, and  those  points are  split. That  means  one  of  them  are  correct  order. One  of  them  is  point the  predict  output  of  those  incorrect  order. The  solid  line  and  the  dest  line just  they  are  separated. It  depends  on  your  bias  value. If  your  bias  is  positive  one, that  means  you  shift  your  curve  to  the  left, then  you  are  using the  left  side  of  the  curve. Sorry,  shift  the  curve  to  the  left, you  are  using  the  right  side. If  the  curve  to  the  right. Now,  because  the  curve  is  shifted  to the  right  from  zero  shifted  to  the  right. Then  you  are  using  the  left  side. If  you  shift  the  curve  to  the, you  are  using  the  right  arm. This  just  show  that  numerically, you  can  actually  ph  use only  one  side  of  the  arm  of  the  tic  case, and  then  your  output will  be  separated  correctly. I  think  this  part of  argument  may  be  a  bit  not  easy  to  digest. We  will  not  emphasize, but  basically,  the  solution  looks  like  this. The  solution  is  summation of  all  the  pairings, the  cov  all  the  pairings. This  p  minus  minus  p plus  multiplied  by  a  transpose is  a  covariance  of  this  pairing. It  also  looks  very  similar to  the  regression  solution. But  then  the  issue  is  it  becomes  a  pairing. Previously,  it  was  P  in  big  P  is  a  p  tspse  P. P  transpose  consists  of a  P  consists  of  many  p  trapoe,  right? And  the  transpose  of  this  is  the  other  way. You  can  see  that  in  place  of  the  p  itself, the  p  becomes  the  pairing, and  the  solution  become  more complex  because  you  have  double  summation. In  other  words,  double  summation actually  is  in  compoation. Single  summation  is  very  easily  vectorized. Vectorize  means  you  have  64  bit, all  64  b  can  be  used  as one  vector  and  multiply  together. But  if  you  are  two  loop  p  then, I  think  you  may  not  atorize  so  easily. You  can  aorize  in  the  loop, but  out  the  loop  may  not  be. I  don't  know  how  they  can  coat  them. This  typically  it  incurs heavy  computation  because  they  are  two  loop, especially  when  your  data  size  is  big. Big.  That  means  if  you  have 1  million  of  positive  samples, 1  million  negative  samples, and  then  double  submission  of million  time  million  60  time  60, have  120  submissions  to  do. But  in  at,  maybe  if  you  aorize, maybe  you  still  have  60  at  this  to  do. If  you  can  atorize  this. But  hard  to  atorize  this  medi. You  only  have  64  bit  vatoriz. Typically  incur  very  huge  summation. But  this  is  still  a  solution. Maybe  at  the  present  moment, it's  hard  to  solve  by  our  hardware  computer. We  have  to  wait  maybe  20, 30  years  later  for  quantum  computing. Everything  can  do  together. But  now  we  don't  have  that  yet. But  still  possible  later. I  do  not  know  how  long  we  need  to wait  because  I'm  not  working  in  that  area. Basically,  the  solution  is this  square  optimum  with  respect  to  the  AUC. That  is  the  optimum  point. If  you  solve  by  this  manner. And  the  solution  can  be used  to  computer  output  for unseen  test  data  using  the  new  test  metric, same  as  the  regression  you  apply. Multiply  by  P  by your  estimate  you  can  predict. Another  issue  of  this  estimation  is, you  can  see  that  AUC includes  all  the  thresholds. There's  no  threshold  setting. If  you  want  to  calculate  specific  error  rate, you  need  to  choose  the  threshold to  get  one  point  because this  AUC  is  every  point, optimize,  and  that  A  U  means  the  area. And  your  solution  get  best AUC  on  all  threshold. In  practice,  you  still  need  to choose  threshold,  for  example, in  very  tight  security, you  want  to  choose  low  force  positive  rate. Then  you  choose  one  point  and  you calculate  the  error  rate  at  that  point. That  depending  on  application. But  if  you  don't  knows  the  application, then  maybe  we  can  optimize the  error  rate  in  total  error  rate. The  AUC  can  be formulated  to  optimize  the  total  error  rate. With  respect  to  threshold. Rem  the  total  error  rate in  the  previous  formulation. The  total  rate  here has  a  threshold  has  a  threshold  here. Then  you  can  differentiate this  with  respect  to  of. Then  you  can  get  a  solution because  this  threshold  is very  dear  proportional  innar  terms, and  you  can  also  get  solution. If  you  differentiate  reelect the  resi  and  put  this  whole  equal  to  zero, the  first  t  equal  to  zero, You  will  get  this  solution. Basically  is  the  counting of  each  post  g  class, a  balance  counting  according  to the  data  size  of  each  class. This  is  basically  the  fort. Optimal  threshold  for  best  TR  output. But  if  you  want  higher  security, lower  seculity, you  can  set  different  threshold. The  AUC  optimization  here do  not  have  explicit  threshold  setting. If  you  want  error  rate, you  need  to  choose  a  threshold. The  choice  of  resho  can  be  by optimization  or  can  we depend  on  your  application, whether  you  need  a  high  security or  low  security  setting. S  for  AUC.  AOC  may  not  be  so bical  because  of  the  high  memory  requirement of  the  double  summation. For  small  data  is  okay. Small  means  thousand  10,000  below, it's  fine.  Not  so  bad. Double  summation  at  ten of  of  sums,  not  millions  yet. But  if  you  go  to  million  summation, then  multiply  together  is. This  is  just  showcase an  example  of  using  the  AUC  for  completion. Again,  over  here, showcase  also  imbalanced  data. We  have  three  points  of c  zero  data  and  two  points  of  class  one  data. So  it's  imbalance.  So  n plus  n  plus  is  two,  right? N  minus  is  three,  three  and  two, one  over  n  plus  n  over  n minus.  N  plus  is  two. Over  here,  we  show  two  decision. One  is  by  diner  regression. The  green  cutting  point, the  threshold  at  0.5, because  we  are  learning  one  and  zero. Both  0.5,  cutting  at  the  middle. The  target  is  zero  and  one. Okay.  And  you  can  see that  the  green  line  is  below. The  dotted  blue  line is  above.  Do  you  know  why? Why  the  behavior  of  AUC and  digression  have  different. But  if  you  equal number  of  n  plus  n  minus  point, both  line  will  overlap. B  one  divide  by  n plus  one  b  n  minus,  they  are  the  same. They  must  together. A  UC  is  also  the  same  thing. When  you  start  multiply together,  same  as  T  R, because  the  optimization  is  according  to  T  R, the  threshold  is  chosen  according  to  TR. Because  of  that  choice, TR  tried  to  account  for  classification  error. Does  not  depend  on  density  of  data. Regression  fits  density  of  data. More  density,  more  high  density, fit  more  weight  on  the  curve. That  means  the  curve  will  have  bigger  area. More  density,  the  curve will  have  more  coverage. I  push  away  align.  Okay. And  TR  does  not  care  about  that. It  cares  about  how  many  samples are  correct  and  wrong. So  it  is  not  affected  by  density, or  not  affected,  not  so  much affected  by  number  of  samples  in  each  class. Basically,  this  curve  is  due  to due  to  AUC  maybe  not  the  main  case. The  main  case  is  T  R, which  is  class  specific  weighing. That  means  it  depends  on number  of  samples  in  each  class. How  many  are  correct  and  wrong. They  do  not  fit  according  to  density. They  try  to  count  the  number  of  or. I  try  to  push  over  to  include  the  black  one. But  if  you  include  the  black  one, you'll  count  one  more  or, so  it  has  a  balance,  so  slightly  higher. That  is  a  main  main  reason. TI  basically  do  not  care  about  the  I  mean, not  so  care  about  the  emphasis is  not  on  the  density  of  data. But  regression  depends  more emphasize  on  the  fitting the  density  of  the  data. That's  a  basic  scenario. Eventually,  we  have  this  data  transformation. Maybe  I  just  quickly  go  through  and maybe  in  next  week, we  have  some  time  to  talk  about  this  again. We  want  to  unify all  these  results  of  estimation. We  have  a  regression, we  have  T  ER,  we  have  AUC. You  can  see  the  solution all  look  very  similar. They  are  quite  alike. TR  is  partition  postnatal  class. AUC  is  a  post native  sample  pass,  the  ranking  order. But  how  can  they  connect  together? There  is  a  way  to  connect  them  together, which  is  by  data  manipulation. All  these  methods,  basically  can be  taken  as  a  result  of  data  manipulation. How  do  we  manipulate  the  data? We  can  use  transformation  of  data. We  want  to  link  this  three together  and  link  more to  other  traditional  ways. By  linking  this, you  know  the  trick  is  basically  data. Algorithm  depend  on  data. The  way  the  data  transform, actually  can  change  algorithm. Changing  algorithm  means  changing  data. At  they  are  in  the  wine. They  are  related  in  some  way. When  you  can  see  this,  I  hope  we can  have  more  effective  change of  deep  network  data. If  you  know  the  relation, then  you  may  create more  new  ways  to  do  things. The  main  purpose  is  to  view the  concept  from conventional  way.  Different  from  AI. This  book  maybe  not  so much  trained  by  AI  yet. You  still  have  a  little  bit  of  noble  things. After  a  few  more  years,  maybe  a  few  months, more  or  are  trained  by  AI, then  maybe  A  can  view  the  same  as  this  book. We  introduce  an  additive  form of  denar  transform  data. Then  we  try  to  vary the  transformation  coefficients, and  then  we  can  see  that they  can  connect  together. We'll  talk  about  this  data. Maybe  the  time  is  out  I  hope  you  can have  early  night  instead of  staying  back  another  20  minutes. I  think  we  will  stop  here  and I'll  continue  I  think next  week  we  have  a  bit  of  time, so  we  can  continue  remain just  a  few  more  sights  in  next  week. I  think  for  e  s  today, we  can  call  it  a  day, and  then  the  remaining  part, we  move  on  to  next  week. Okay.  Thank  you.  I'll  stay  here  for a  couple  of  minutes  for  those  who  don't need  to  go  back  fast  enough, so  we  can  still  come and  discuss  with  me if  you  have  any  questions. Okay.  Thank  you. Feel  free  if  you  have any  questions  to  discuss. Maybe  two  days  is  a  bit, compared  with  previous  week. So  you  can  ask  whatever  questions  you  want.
