Okay.  Good  afternoon,  everybody. Can  I  just  get  a  indication on  whether  all  of  you  can  hear  me? Okay,  good.  Yeah.  Thank  you  very  much. Okay,  good  afternoon.  Yeah. So  welcome  to  EE  six, I  e4fn  seven, Pattern  Recognition  and  D. Yeah.  My  name  is  tang. I  will  be  the  er for  the  first  half  of  this  course. And  y. So  unfortunately yesterday  was  the  public  holiday, so  we  couldn't  have  the  physical  lecture in  the  lecture  theater. But  I'm  excited  to  see  many  of  you  here and  hope  and  definitely  hope to  meet  of  you  in  person next  week  on  Monday,  right? So  we  will  have  the  normal  physical  lecture on  Monday  next  week. Okay.  But  for  today, we  will  just  have  this  teams  lecture. And  yeah,  and  I  have  started the  recording  And  I  will post  the  recording  after the  lecture  has  ended  on the  NTU  Ln  so  that  you in  case  you  want  to  review the  lecture  materials.  Yeah. Okay.  So  maybe  let  me  just  go  through some  administrative  things  first. So  say  course  admin. All  right. So  this  course  is  about pattern  recognition  and machine  learning  and  deep  learning. So  deep  learning  is  just  one  aspect of  machine  learning,  right? So  this  course,  we  are  actually going  to  focus  more on  the  deep  learning  part. But  of  course,  the  first  half is  on  the  pattern  recognition  part. The  learning  outcomes  for  the  first  half, the  ones  in  the  blue  color. So  on  basin  inference, H  H  models,  EM  algorithm, Markov  model,  Markov  models, Markov  Shan  Mont  Cardo,  MCMC. And  then  in  the  second  half  of  this  course, then  we  will  be  looking at  the  neural  networks, which  is  now  the  You  know, the  most  popular  approach to  doing  pattern  recognition  in  EI, right,  how  to  do  the  training, generating  model,  self  supervised  learning. And  then,  of  course,  applications of  pattern  recognition  and  machine  learning will  be  will  be discussed  throughout  the  whole  course, right, both  in  the  first  half  and  the  second  half. Okay.  So  this  is  my  e  mail  address. You  are  most  welcome  to  e  mail  me  if  you  have any  questions or  anything  that  you  are  not  clear  about. And  later  on,  I  will  talk  about  the  O  clap. You  can  also  put  your  questions  in the  O  clap  as  well  so  that,  you  know, your  classmates  who  may  have the  same  question  as  you can  benefit  from  the  discussion. So  you  can  y  you can  e  mail  me  or  you  can  put  in  the  O  clap. Y  and  I'm  basically covering  the  weeks  one  to  seven. Then  after  that  after  the  recess  week, the  professor  Depo,  right  H  e  mail  is  here. He  will  be  coming  in  to  cover the  remaining  six  weeks.  Okay. So  this  course  is  on pattern  recognition  and  deep  learning. Okay. So  it's  related  to  a  few  other  courses. So  re44  83. Okay.  So  for  the  MSE  students, this  would  be  EE  683,  right? And  then  I  e4414, this  is  available  to  the post  graduate  MSE  students. This  is  a  undergraduate  course. So  and  then  of  course, now  for  the  master  students, we  also  have  other  courses  like  EE  64  oh  six, EE  6406  EE  64  oh  seven. Okay. Yeah,  I  suppose  this  will  be the  few  most  EE  EE  64  oh  five. All  right. Okay.  Yeah. So  please  make  sure  that  you  meet  yourself. Unless  you  have  questions  to  ask so  that  we  don't  disturb  the  others. Okay.  So  these  are  all the  related  courses,  right? So  what's  the  difference between  all  these  courses and  this  particular  course that  we  are  having? So  basically  this  course  itself,  right, we  are  basically  focusing  on the  concepts  and  underlying  theories, and  we  are  talking  more  For  the  first  half, we  are  talking  about  pattern  recognition. Sorry,  there  is  no  voice  now.  Okay.  Yeah. Okay. So  yeah. So  somehow  I  got  admitted.  Sorry. I  don't  know  where  I  lost  the.  Okay. So  I  was  saying  that  For  this  course, we  are  talking  about  mathematically interpretable  models, probabilistic  approach,  and  the  reasoning behind  is  selected  models. As  compared  to  all  these  other  courses which  are  more  on the  AI  architecture  and  model, like  talking about  using  different  approaches, different  models  to  solve  different  problems. So  yeah. So  the  difference  is  that for  this  particular  course, we  are  going  to  focus  more on  the  concepts  and the  underlying  theories  behind why  we  want  to  do  certain  things,  right? And  then  and  then once  you  understand  this  concept, then  this  will  help  you  to understand  what  all  these other  models  are  trying  to  do. So  you  should  think  of this  course  as  actually  an  introductory course  to  all  these  other  courses,  right? And  that's  why  this  course  is  actually offered  together  as a  undergraduate  course  as  well,  right? For  the  MSE  students  here, just  some  background  information. This  course  is  actually  offered as  a  undergraduate  year  four. Course  and  we  actually  have  also a  handful  of  undergraduate  students registered  for  this  course for  this  semester  as  well. These  are  the  part  time  students. So  basically, a  short  to  the  part  time undergraduate  students,  right. There  are  only  a  few  of you  registered  in  this  course. So  if  you  need  any  additional  help or  any  things  that  are  not  clear, right,  please  feel  free  to  contact  me. So  I  I  I  appreciate  that, you  know, doing  part  time  studies is  actually  very  difficult. You  guys  have  to  work full  time  in  the  day  and then  a  ten  evening  classes,  right. So  so  don't  just feel  free  to  contact  me  anytime. The  majority  of  the  students  here  today  is the  MSC  or  post graduate  students  for this  particular  semester. So,  this  semester, most  of  our  students are  post  graduate  students. We  are  actually  offering this  course  in  the  next  semester  as  well. So  in  the  next  semester, there  will  be  more  undergraduate  students because  then  it  will be  offered  actually  as  a  undergraduate  class, but  also  open  to  graduation for  master  students. Okay.  So  Yeah. Coming  to  that,  if  you  are  not able  to  get  a  registration  for  this  course, this  semester,  you  can  consider to  take  it  next  semester  as  well. Especially  for  those  students who  just  joined  the  MSC  program. In  the  next  semester,  you  actually  have priority  to  register  for  courses. For  this  semester,  since  you  are  new, the  priority  is  given  to the  older  students.  That's  one  thing. The  other  thing  is  for  course  regulation, actually,  I  have  no  control over  the  course  regulation. So  no  point,  you  know, asking  me  to  help  you  to  register,  right? Because  the  school  doesn't  allow the  professor  to  register  students. So  this  one  has  to  go through  whatever  appeals  that  you  have, you  have  to  go  through  the  program  office. But  I  want  to  say  that  I  mean, if  you  are  not  able  to register  for  this  course,  don't  worry,  right? You  can  also  take  it  next  semester. Okay.  In  terms  of  the  requirements,  yeah. Basically,  you  will  need some  elementary  calculus  like being  able  to  take  derivatives, partial  derivatives,  solving  equations, finding  the  maximum  minimum  values. Okay. And  then  we  will need  quite  a  bit of  probability  theory,  right. So  you  need  to  understand  what  is a  probability  density  function, probability  mass  function,  right? What  is  an  expectation? What's  the  variance? What's  the  co  variance  and so  you have  no  background  in  probability  theory, maybe  you  may  want  to  consider  actually taking  EE  74  oh  one,  right. So  although  the  course  code  is  74  oh  one, but  the  level  is not  that  high  h,  I  have  to  say,  right. Although  it's  primarily  for  PhD  students, but  in  this  74  oh  one,  right, we're  actually  covering  everything from  the  very  basic. So  if  you  had  totally never  done  any  probability  before, then  I  think  it  will be  good  to  have  some  probability  background. So  in  74  oh  one.  Yeah. And  really  try  to  do  well  in  this  course, right,  you  need  to get  yourself  involved  mentally. Try  to  solve  the  problems. And  try  to  work  out  the  solutions, instead  of  immediately  asking  check  GPT. So  so  I  have  provided  like  practice  problems, at  the  end  of  every  week,  right. So  I  I  won't  be  going  through those  practice  problems,  but  you  can  try. So  those  are  simple  basic  problems just  to  test  your  understanding. Yeah. So  you  should  try  them  before  you,  you  know, get  help  from  the  EII. And  of  course,  if  you don't  understand  I  mean, I  think  there's  nothing  wrong  to  ask  AI  help, but  I  guess  the  key  thing is  that  you  should  learn  from  what,  you  know, the  EI  is  telling  you  or try  to  figure  out  what is  it  that  you  don't  smoke  and  why is  it  that  you  not able  to  solve  that  problem. Okay?  So  that's  the  best  way  to get  the  maximum  out  of  this  cost. Okay,  Python  code  wise, I  suppose  is  not  as  critical  This  was put  here  when  I  was  teaching  this  course  like in  the  last  two  or  three  years,  right? And  then  being  able  to  implement  piton  codes. At  that  time  was  still  very  important. But  nowadays,  I  know a  lot  of  you  are  probably  much  more familiar  with  using  EI  cloud  cloud  GPT and  all  the  that  me, And  you  know  that this  thing  called  fight  coding,  right? You  using  the  AI to  code  for  you  is  actually  now the  standard  things  become so  easy  to  implement  a  Python  program. You  don't  even  need  to  know,  you  know, all  the  syntax  or all  the  libraries  or  all  the  things, and  you  can  write  your  program  very  easy, using  the  help  of  AI. So  that's  why  I  say nowadays  implementing,  you  know, being  able  to  know  how  to  implement the  python  codes  from  scratch  is actually  not  as  important  as  in  the  past. But  nevertheless,  I  have  provided some  example  python  codes for  you  to  look  through.  Okay. So  I  won't  be  going  through  the  python  codes, but  these  are  provided  in the  NTN  for  you  to  take  a  look  and  to  see, you  know,  what  are  the  common  packages that  being  used  and  how the  usual  program  is  structured. Okay. And  practice  problems,  practice problems  at  the  end of  each  of  which  are  lecture  slides. Okay. The  solutions  are  actually  also  provided. So  it's,  um,  In  blue  as  well. If  you  do  at  the  end  of  week  one  slide, you  will  see  the  problems  and the  solutions  which  are  in  blue  color. So  try  not  to  do  the  solutions  first,  right? Try  to  do  the  problems. And  of  course, the  solutions  are  going  to  help  you. And  of  course,  the  solutions that  I  write  are  very  concise. So  there's  not  a  lot  of  information. I  will  also  encourage you  if  you  don't  understand  the  solution, you  can  actually  also get  the  AI  to  help,  right? You  can  get  AI  to  explain  to you  what  each  step of  the  solution  is  trying  to  do. And  of  course,  yeah.  As  welcome your  timely  feedback.  Okay. So  don't  wait  until the  end  of  the  semester when  the  school  asks you  to  do  feedback,  right? Then  you  write  the  feedback  because by  that  time  it's  already  to  date, I  I  won't  be  able  to  change  anything. So  if  you  see  anything  that,  you  know, we  can  do  better and  help  you  to  learn  better, please  let  me  know  immediately. So  we  can  make your  semester  the most  productive  as  possible. Okay. Okay.  So  the  grading  wise, k.  This  slide  is  for  the  UG  students. So  the  few  part  time  students who  are  joining  the  lecture. So  I'm  not  going  to  go through  in  detail,  right. So  this  is  the  percentage. So  maybe  I'll  focus  more  on the  or  the  majority  of  you,  right? Sorry.  Okay. So  y. For  most  of  you,  the  MSC  students, you  are  taking  the  EE  6497. So  this  is  the  grade  components. Your  final  exam  is  60%. There  are  two  cases.  Each  of them  is  10%  each.  Okay. And  then  there  are  two  homewards. Each  of  them  is  5%. There's  a  class  participation. I'll  later  on,  so  this  will  constitute  5%. And  then  there's  a  survey  report that  you  need  to  submit  at  the  end. This  will  be  another  5%. Okay.  So  there's  no  late  submission allowed  for  homework  because  the  homeworks are  posted  well  in  advance. You  don't  have  to  wait  until, you  know,  the  deadline  to  do  the  homework. So  I  hope  of  you once  you  have  once  we  have  covered,  you  know, sufficient  material,  you  can start  doing  the  homework  and see  and  then  prepare  to  do  it  and  then, you  know,  submit  it  one,  right? So  that's  why  we  don't  allow any  late  late  submission. For  the  quizzes  and  the  final  exam, you  can  bring  a  double  size A  four  reference  sheet,  right? And  you  can  write  anything  on  it. You  can  write  any  formula, any  equation,  whatever  you  want, right  on  this  reference  sheet, so  you  can  bring  this  to  the  exam  hall, to  the  quiz  venue.  Okay. And  the  idea  is that  we  don't  want  you  to  memorize  anything. So  in  fact,  for  this  colle, you  shouldn't  try  to memorize  anything  at  all. Oh.  What  we  hope is  for  you  to  achieve a  good  understanding  of  the  material. Without  having  to  memorize  anything. And  then  this  A four  size  reference  sheet,  right, you  can  basically  if  there's certain  formulas  or  certain  things you  want  to  write  down  on  it, you  know,  you  can  just  write  and  bring  it  to the  Sam  Quiz  venue. And Yeah. Yeah. At  least  for  the  first half  of  the  course,  actually, I  feel  that  there's  actually  nothing much  right.  I  mean,  I  don't. Actually, everything  is  logic  is  just  based  on  logic. So  yeah,  if  you  understand  the  material, there's  actually  nothing  to  memorize  or to  record. Yeah.  Okay.  So  the  course  contained,  right? The  topics  that  we're  going  to  cover. Okay.  So  in  the  first  half, you  can  see  this  is  the first  seven  weeks  of  the  course. We  are  going  to  your  homework one  is  going  to  be  due  in five  or  W  five submitted  online  through  the  equivalent. So  you  basically  just have  to  work  out  the  solution, write  it  down,  you  can  use  Latex. You  can  use  as  well, you  want  to  type  it  up, but  there's  no  requirement,  right. Pase  option  about  you. The  minimum  you  can  do is  just  use  pain  in  paper, write  it  down,  write  down  the  solution, you  know,  scan  it. So  now  there's  a  lot  of  apps, you  can  use  to  take  a  photo, you  can  convert  that  into  a  PDF. So  very  importantly, please  convert  everything  into a  single  PDF  before  you  submit  it. This  makes  it  much  easier for  me  to  mark  the  homework. Okay.  So  and  then  in  week  seven, we  are  going  to  have  the  quiz  right. So  the  quiz  will  cover only  the  materials  from  weeks  one  to  four. Okay. So  basically  this  four  weeks  material. And  this  quiz,  I  will give  you  more  information  about  the  quiz. Later  on,  this  quiz  will  be  a  online  quiz, but  you'll  be  done  in person  in  the  lecture  theater. You  have  to  bring  your  laptop  or  your  table, and  then  the  quiz  is  through  the  anti. So  we  going  to  do  the  anti  quiz. Okay. And  then  after  the  recess in  the  second  half  of  the  course, will  be  pro  po,  right? He  will  be  covering  more  on the  simple  AI  architectures.  Okay. Okay. So  class  participation,  clap, soever  use  this  Clap basically  to  help  to test  your  understanding  during  the  lecture, you  will  earn  the  full  class participation  marks  if  you attend  the  UPA  quions in  nine  out  of  13  lectures. So  there's  some  buffer  for  you,  right? And  you  will  get  the  marks as  long  as  you  attend, right,  you  don't  have  to  get  it  right. So  the  even  you  get  the  question  wrong, as  long  as  you  submit  the  answer, your  answer,  right,  does  not  have  to be  a  correct  answer.  You  will  get  the  mark. So  Yeah. As  long  as  you  attempt, then  you  will  get  one  out  of  the  13,  right? So  basically,  you  need  to  accumulate  nine  h. You  will  need  to attend  nine  lectures  minimum. Attend  nine  lectures  to get  the  full  class  participation  marks. Okay. So  I  think  this  one  is  to be  quite  easy  for  all  of  you,  right? This  be  kind  of  like  everybody  to  get  the  5%. Okay.  So  the  clap  right, please  let's  try  it  out. Okay.  So  this  is  your  NTU  len.  Okay. So  you  can  see  that  the  middle  gallery, this  is  a  place  where  all  the lecture  recordings  will  be  soreed. Okay. So  after  today's  lecture  when  you  click  on, you  should  be  able  to see  the  recording  from  here. Okay.  Okay.  So  I'll upload  the  recording  later  on. And  then  there's  a  library  resource. This  one,  you  will see  the  recommended  textbooks. Basically,  you  can  also get  them  from  the  library. And  then  this  is  the  Python notebooks  that  I  mentioned. So  the  python  code,  you  can  take  a  look. I  won't  be  going  through the  python  code  in  the  co. I  mean,  I'll  show sign  of  the  python  notebooks, but  I  will  not  go  through  the  code  in  detail. So  at  least  for  the  first  half, of  course,  I  won't  be  testing you  on  any  python  code. But  for  the  second  half, under  the  bot  part, he  may  ask  you  to  explain  or to  discuss  or  interpret  some  python  code. So  that  is  possible. But  for  the  first  half, I  won't  ask  you  to  write  any  python  code. Okay.  So  this  is  more  for  your  reference. Okay.  So  you  can  see  that in  one  week  two  week  three,  right? So  y,  so  you  have  to click  on  the  arrow  to  see  the  content,  right. So  the  first  three  weeks materials  are  available. And  each  week,  you  have  the  clap,  okay. So  so  I  would  like  to  invite  all  of  you  here, to  go  into  the  clap  and then  to  answer  the  question,  right. So  I  have  some  questions  for  you. And  this  is  also  to  help  to  make  sure that  we  can  capture  your  response,  okay? So  after  you  answer the  question,  what's  that? Yeah. Afterwards,  after  this  lecture  ends, I  will  look  through  the response  and  make  sure  that, you  know, everybody's  attempt  is  captured,  right? Because  eventually  you  will  show up  in  your  group  book,  right, whether  you  have  attempted  or  not. Okay.  So  yeah. So  this  is  basically an  exercise  will  make  sure  that  what's  that? There  are  no  technical  issues,  h?  Okay. So  1  minute,  right  of  you, please  attempt  the  so  you  have  to go  through  the  Qn  to click  on  the  UCL  link,  right? Otherwise,  the  system  will not  be  able  to  recognize  your  account. If  you  can't  recognize  your  account, obviously,  you  cannot  capture  your  te,  right? You  cannot  record  that  you  have  done  the  UCA, and  then  of  course,  it  won't sold  out  in  the  Tulum. So  please  in  order  to  let the  system  capture  your  class  participation, you  need  to  go  through  the  N  log in  through  the  Q  using  your  student  account. Go  to  this  course  website, click  on  this  clap  for  week  one before  you  and  then  go  through  that  portal, and  then  you  can  see  this  clap  question, and  then  you  can  key  in  your  answer  here. And  then  going  through  this  process, then  hopefully  nothing  goes wrong  and  your  tem is  captured  inside  the  NTU. Yeah. And  I  want  to  also  I  think  what  you're  seeing here  in  the  UCL  is  for the  student  interface  is slightly  different  from  mine. I'm  seeing  the  instructor  interface. I  believe  right  there's an  option  in  your  interface,  right? There's  one  place  where  you can  actually  post  messages. So  somebody  has  posted  a  message  here. So  you  are  welcome  to post  messages  during  the  lecture. I  both  today  as well  as  during  the physical  lecture  in  the  LT, anything  that  you  are  not  clear, you  can  post  a  message  here  if you  If  you  don't want  to  ask  the  question  outright, right  you  can  always  post  the  message. But  of  course,  I  also  encourage  you to  just  meet  yourself  or during  the  actual  lecture in  the  LT  just  raise  your  hand  and  ask the  question.  Don't  be  shy. Yeah,  ask  the  question. But  if  really  you  don't feel  comfortable  to  ask  a  question, you  can  always  post  it  here. It's  just  that  I  may  not  be  able  to  see the  question  immediately.  So  y. So  because  I'm  doing  the  lecture, I  will  only  come  and look  at  the  messages  at  certain  interverts, right?  Not  so  regular. Okay. So  I  may  not  see  your  question  immediately. But  that's  fine. So  I  guess  the  most  direct  way is  to  ask  you  raise your  hand  and  ask  the  question. And  for  today,  of  course, you  can  just  met  yourself. And  today,  actually,  there's  another  option. You  can  also  put  inside  the  teams  chat. Okay.  Okay.  So  I think  most  of  you  will have  answered  the  question. So  basically,  yeah,  most  of  you  53%, right,  intend  to  work  in  a  data  size related  job  after  graduation. Okay.  So  now  this  is  a  very  popular  area. But  of  course  getting more  difficult,  I  have  to  say, right  this  tech  BIT  tech  area is  actually  in  terms of  hiring  is  getting  more  difficult. And  of  course,  now  you  guys have  to  also  compete  with  AI  agents.  Okay. I'll  talk  more  about  that  later  on. Okay.  So  So  yeah, it's  good  to  see  most of  you  are  looking  for  this, but  I  want  to encourage  you  to  keep your  options  open,  right? It's  not  necessary  that you  have  to  work  in  a data  science  related  job. Although  this  course  is  all  about  data  size. Okay,  20%  want  to  pursue  further  studies, about  20%  want  to do  another  area  other  than  data  science. So  actually  doing  a  data size  course  is  going  to  be  very helpful  for  you  to apply  to  other  areas,  right. So  now  there's  a  lot  of  areas  that  require AI  AI  for  other  things, in  many  other  areas. Okay.  Okay.  So I  school.  Okay. So  yeah,  before  we  go  back  to  the  Clap, let's  finish  out  some  of  the  main  thing. So  yeah,  textbooks  wise. The  first  one,  the  shop  is the  main  textbook  that  we  use. But  this  one  is  pretty  old, I  would  say,  2007. But  of  course, the  fundamentals  don't  change,  right? This  course  is  a  introductory  course to  pattern  recognition  and  determining, right. So  in  terms  of the  fundamental  math, fundamental  size,  change. So  of  course  this  textbook  is  still  relevant. Then  there's  a  from  Murphy. So  this  Murphy  textbook,  2012, right  now  has  actually evolved  into  two  textbooks. So  originally,  it  was  one  textbook, now  they  changed  to  Part  one  and  Part  two, so  they  added  a  lot  of  new  material  inside. So  you  may  want  to  take  a  look  also. And  of  course,  the  third  one  is  one  of the  classic  textbooks  used  in  Machining. Okay. Yeah,  make  sure  you don't  touch  the  recording. Okay.  What  side? Yeah.  So  the  first  textbook, I  think  is  probably  the  most  relevant. And  the  second  one  is  also  very  useful. In  fact,  we  are  going  to  use  a  lot  of the  python  code  from  the  second  textbook. Okay. Yeah. And  the  python  code  basically from  the  textbook,  12. And  supplementary  materials  are provided  for  reference  only. Okay,  good. So,  maybe  before  I start  on  the  actual  lecture  material, do  we  have  any  questions  here? Anything  not  clear. Okay.  If  not,  then  I  do  at  this  clap. So  this  is  a  brainstorming  activity. So  I  think  this  will  become  more  and  more relevant  as  the  EI  agents develop  and  become  more  powerful,  right? So  at  a  job  interview, right  you  are  asked  what  advantages do  you  have  over  an  AI  agent,  right? The  employer  wants  to  know  why the  employ  you  instead  of  using  the  AI  agent. So  what  how  we  will  respond  to  this. There's  no  right  or  wrong  answer, So  basically  just  to see  what  everybody's  opinion  is  about. Okay. So  I  see  a  very  big  letter  creativity. Okay.  Good. And  then  there's  thinking, learning,  emotional. So  I  think  very  important,  right, emotional,  the  emotional  aspect  of  a  product, right,  is  not  just  based  on  pure, you  know,  what  the  AI  can  create,  right. So  I  think  that  is  one  of the  most important  most  important  contribution as  a  human  worker, right  that  you  can  have  you  can provide  that  emotional  bridge, the  bridge  between  the  company and  the  customer,  right? Okay. So  that  one  the  EI  at  least  for  now, h,  the  AI  cannot  do  it  right, but  you'll  never  know,  right  next  time. All  these  are  human  robots are  being  developed  at  such  a  fast  pace. Then  you  have  to  think  about  what  are the  other  possibility  possible  new  things that  you  can  bring  to  the  table. Okay.  I  see  creativity, a  lot  of  you  put  creativity, which  is  which  is  indeed  very  true,  right? So  to  think  out  the  bot, come  out  new  ideas. And  now  the  AI  agent is  able  to  help  you  to  implement  the  ideas. You  think  of  the  AI  agent  as something  that  helps in  your  productivity,  right? You  are  the  one  who  come  up  with the  ideas  and  the  AI  agent  is  the  one to  help  you  to implement  to  make  it  so much  faster  and  more  productive, right  to  implement  something. But  the  main  idea  actually still  comes  from  the  human. And  responsibility. Yeah.  I  see  a  keyword  responsibility, that's  very  important. At  the  end  of  the  day, who  is  going  to  take  ownership  and responsibility  for  that  particular  product. It  can  only  be  a  human  being. Okay.  So  very  good. Yeah.  So  following  up  on  that,  right? I  actually  tried  to  use  the  Germin  in  agent. So  I  think  all  of  you  should  know,  right, you  have  access  to  the  ermine  EI  agent that  is  provided  by  NT,  right? All  the  students  actually  are  given  access to  the  to  the  paid  version,  right? This  is  provided  by  NTU. So  you  can  use it  for  your  studies  and  to  do  other  things. Mainly  for  your  studies,  okay? Sorry.  So  basically,  you  use this  seminar  agent  that  is  provided  by  NTU, right  or  your  studies. So  I  try  to  make  use  of  that. Ask  this  question,  right? What  is  the  best  PTO  architecture? So  PTO  is  the  EI  package  that  is  now  being widely  used  to  implement all  these  deplaning  models. So  basically,  I  ask  what  is the  best  PPO  architecture  for patent  recognition  final  time  series, to  maximize  a  shark  ratio. So  sub  ratio  is  a  basic  a  measurement  to indicate  what  is  the  return  rate of  a  certain  portfolio? So  basically,  we  implement the  model  to  optimize  a  portfolio  of tech  stocks  using  Intra  Day  data  from Yahoo  Finance  and  use  out  of sample  that  testing  to get  the  performance  of  the  model. This  is  a  very  simple  prong, and  the  AI  basic  took  less  than  2  minutes, I  would  say,  probably  maximum  2  minutes. To  come  up  with  the  whole  program, everything  nicely  written,  you  know, in  Python  with  all  the  packages and  even  the  visualization. But  of  course  that  along  the  way, I  have  to  prompt  it  to  give  it exactly  what  kind  of  plot I'm  looking  for,  right? So  there  are  some  slight  pros, slight  adjustments  you  need  to  make. But  for  the  first  round is  already  able  to  give me  exactly  almost  exactly  what  I  need,  right? And  that  takes  less  than  2  minutes. I  imagine,  right  if you  are  the  human  doing  this,  right? This  will  probably  take you  half  a  day,  right, at  least  or  even  one  day to  just  write  the  program. Okay.  So  we  can  take  a  look at  the  python  code. So  I'm  not  going  to  go  through the  python  code  in  detail, but  I  just  yeah, just  to  show  you,  right?  What  it  looks  like. So  all  of  these  were written  by  the  Germani  agent, I  didn't  change  anything,  right? And  everything  is  written  very nicely  with  all  the  functions, all  the  different  models. And  so. So  as  a  human  coder, I  would  say,  there's no  way  you  can  compete  with  this. Even  if  you  can  code  very  fast, there's  no  way  you  can  compete with  this  won't  be  able  to  write this  in  less  than  2  minutes and  is  able  to  do  that. So  really,  right?  What  is the  value  of  a  human  right? Why  say  investment  bank, right  hire  you  to  do this  portfolio  optimization  as opposed  to  doing  the  job  to  an  EI  agent. So  So  For  me, I  think  really  the  advantage of  the  human  is  being  the  breach, being  not doing  the  the  actual coding  and  implementation, but  being  able  to  understand  what  the  AI has  produced  and  determine whether  it's  correct  or  not, and  being  able  to  explain, right  what  the  AI  agent  has  produced and  able  to  interpret this  to  your  boss,  right. So  your  boss,  you can't  expect  your  boss,  right, you  you  just  throw  in  the  code  and  then  not telling  the  you  know, your  superior  your  company  CEO, right,  what  this  program  is  trying  to  do, and  why  is  it  doing  in  that  way? So  you  can  see  that  if you  look  through  this  code  right, you  will  see  familiar  terms,  at  least, maybe  not  so  familiar  to  you  guys  right  now, but  after  this  course,  I hope  this  will  become  familiar  to  you,  right? So  you  will  see  things like  BC  attention  networks, Multicol  and  things  like  this. Okay.  So  these  are  all  the  concepts  that we're  going  to  cover  in  this  course,  right. Although  the  concepts  that we  are  going  to  cover, it's  not  going  to  allow you  to,  like,  for  example, this  basic  syncret  all these  concepts  we're  going  to  cover,  right, is  actually  at  a  very  basic  level, is  not  going  to  make  you  into a  super  good  programmer,  right? We're  not  teaching programming  in  this  course. We're  teaching  concepts. And  I  I  feel,  personally, I  feel  in  today's  world, there's  no  need  to  teach  programming,  right? Be  programming  is  actually  can  be done  much  faster  by  AI.  So What  is  the  value  proposition of  a  human  worker  is  able to  help  the  AI or  basic  work  together with  the  AI  to  implement, what  are  the  concepts? What  are  the  models? What  are  the  things  that  you  want the  AI  to  do  and  being  able  to  interpret, and  tell  and  know  whether the  AI  is  doing  what  you  want, and  being  able  to  tell  your  boss, why  this  approach  is  good, why  that  other  approach  is  not good  and  why  we  want  to  do  it  this  way. Oh. Okay.  So  so  you  can  look  at the  that  code  that  is  provided. So  this  Jupiter  Nooo  is  also provided  in  the  antigu  And  yeah, I  I  hope  at  the  end  of  this  course,  right, all  of  you  are  able  to  able  to, you  know,  explain  the  code,  right? Or  at  tell  what the  code  is  trying  to  do,  okay? Okay.  So  start  on the  start  on  the  main  part  of  the  lecture. Okay.  So  okay. So  we're  talking  about  machining the  ing,  right  in  this  course. Yeah.  We're  talking  about  pattern  recognition and  machine  learning  in  this  course. In  machine  learning,  we  can broadly  categorize into  a  few  categories  of  machine  learning. The  first  one  is  called  supervised  learning. In  supervised  learning,  what  we're  trying to  do  is  to  input, given  some  input  as. This  is  usually  also  called  the  fi  tor. So  the  input  feature  Okay. So  you  are  given  S  fisial  factor, for  example,  an  image. So  you  can  have  an  image. So  maybe  this  is  256  pizzas  by  256. So  you  basically  have an  image  with  256  by  256  pizzas, and  this  could  be  your  x. In  fact,  for  RGB  images, right,  as  you  can  see, as  the  name  implies, there's  red,  green,  and  blue  channels. There  are  actually  three  channels. So  your  ads  is  actually  consists of  three  different  channels,  right? Or  256  b256. So  ads  is  actually belongs  to  say  r256  times  256  times  three. So  this  is  it could  be  a  very  big  facial  vector,  right. So  from  the  X, you  want  to  infer, right?  What  is  the  y? So  the  y  could  be,  for  example, in  classification, it  could  be  a  label,  right? So  whether  this  image is  showing  a  digit  four, whether  it  is  So whether  it's  sowing  a  digit  four, or  whether  it's  showing one  or  zero  or  seven  or  eight  and  so  on. Okay.  So  this  function  F here  is  the  machine  learning  model,  right? You  apply  some  algorithm,  right  or  model. You'll  apply  it  to  the  input. Right?  I  give  you  the  x,  which is  an  image  over  here. You  plug  it  into the  algorithm and  the  algorithm  will  tell  you,  right? What  is  the  value  of  y, which  is  what  is  the  value  of the  digit  that  is  shown  inside  the  image? In  the  supervised  learning, we  are  actually  given  many  pairs  of  examples. So  these  are  called training  data  or  examples. Many  pairs  of  examples, and  you  are  basically  going  to use  these  examples  of training  data  to  train  your  model, in  order  to  hopefully get  something  a  very  good F.  We  want  to  get a  very  accurate  F  so that  whenever  I  give  you  a  new, you  are  this  F  is  going  to  able  to tell  me  what  is  the  value of  y  with  high  probability. So  I  want  to  have  a  good  accuracy in  terms  of  the  label. All  right.  So  there's  one  example of  supervised  learning. Then  of  course,  object  detection of  recognition  is  another  example,  right. So  in  this  image,  this  is  for  example, from  the  autonomous  vehicle, a  camera,  on  the  AV,  right. So  you  can  see  that  it's  able to  come  out  with  all  these  bounding  boxes. The  model  is  able  to  come  out  with the  bounding  boxes  of the  different  objects  inside this  environment  that  the  vehicle  is seeing  and  then  is  able  to  label,  right? What  is  the  ic  object, able  to  recognize  voice  object. Okay. And  then  we  have  regression. So  here  we  are  basically looking  at  I  give  you  a  X  value, and  then  I  I'm  trying  to  estimate  what  is the  y  value  except  that  the  y  value here  is  can  be  any  real  number,  right? So  y  can  be  any  real. Okay.  The  y  here  in  the  classification  can only  be  up  to  nine. It's  only  one  of  these  labels. This  one  is  also  typically is  also  discrete  as  well, right?  So  we  only  care  about. No.  Maybe  20  objects, or  50  objects  that are  of  importance  in  the  environment, and  we  only  want  to  recognize  about  those, what  are  the,  you  know, whether  the  object  that  we detected  belongs  to  one  of  these  50  classes, so  most  of  the  time  it  cree. So  in  regression,  we  actually allowed  the  y  to  take  on  any  real  value. So  this  could  be,  for  example, we  are  trying  to  estimate  the  temperature, the  humidity,  Yeah, any  value  that  we  are  trying  to  estimate, right,  that  has  comes  from some  real  value  domain. Okay. Another  very  important  category is  the  unsupervised  name. So  as  you  can  tell  from  the  name itself,  now  it  supervised. Supervised  means  you  have levers  that  you  can  train  on. So  why  is  it  called  supervised because  in  the  training  example, I  tell  you  what  is  the  ground. Usually  a  by  GT  GT  means  grouch  tooth. In  the  supervised  learning, all  these  examples  of  training  data, comes  with  the  ground  tooth, and  then  I  made  use  of this  grouch  tooth  to  train  my  mother. In  the  unsupervised  learning  case, unsupervised. You  are  only  given  training data  that  has  no  grouch. There's  no  such  thing  as  ground  here. Okay.  There's  no  concept of  ground  truth,  right? There's  no  such  thing  as  ground  truth  in the  unsupervised  len  case. And  here  we  are  basically  trying to  based  on  the  input  features, right,  we  are  trying  to  recognize, discover,  or  learn  some  patterns  that is  inside  this  input  feature. Okay.  So.  Okay. So  for  example,  in  the  clustering  case. So  this  is  basically  a  two  dimensional  x. So  this  x  value  is  confused of  X  one  and  X  two is  in  a  two  dimensional  space. So  that's  how  you  can  clock  it  right. Imagine  the  x  values are  given  to  you right  without  the  colors,  right. So  no  the  colors. Imagine  there's  no  color,  right. So  this  is  basically all  the  data  that  are  given. In  the  clustering  application, what  we're  trying  to  do  is  to try  to  group  the  data  into clusters  so  that  all  the  data in  the  same  cluster are  similar  to  each  other. So  you  can  see  here  using  different  colors, we  are  basically  grouping into  three  different  clusters. And  then  you  can  argue that  based  on  certain  metrics, that  all  the  blue  color ones  are  similar  to  each  other, or  the  red  one  are  similar  to  each  other, or  the  green  ones  are  similar  to  each  other. There  are  certain  underlying  pattern inside  the  data  that  we  are  trying  to  learn, and  there's  no  reference to  any  so  call  label  or  cloth. Another  example  here  is  the so  called  using  trying to  learn  the  latent  factors. So  we  can  look  at the  example  here  is  the  face  recognition. These  are  all  faces  of all  different  human  beings,  right. But  for  most  human  being, most  of  us  have  two  eyes, one  nose,  one  mouth  right. So  this  is  something  quite  standard, right  in  human  beings  human  faces. So  you  can  imagine, right  when  we  build  a  model, To  do  facial  recognition. I  don't  need  to  actually  try  to,  you  know, remember  every  single  detail, right  inside  each  phase. There  could  be  a  lot  of  minor  variations that  do  not  appear  in  other  phases. And  so  I  want  to learn  what  are  the  so  called  latent  factors, right? The  ones  that  allowed me  to  construct  each  of  the  phases, right  so  that  I  can  come  up  with  a  model  that has  a  lower  dimension as  compared  to,  you  know, just  trying  to  have  a  database  that contains  all  the  possible  you  know, 7  billion  phases,  right  on  earth. Okay. So  in  the  latent  factor  case,  Like, basically  what  we  are  trying  to  learn, are  all  these  so  called  latent  factors, which  actually  look  like  phases. These  all  do  like  phases. And  basically, the  assumption  here  is  that  each  of these  phase  is  a  linear  combination of  all  these  factors. Each  of  them  is  called  a  latent  factor. Each  of  them  looks  like  a  phase, but  they  are  not  actually belongs  to  one  single  human  being. And  basically  we  are  going  to  say  that every  human  is  basically a  linear  combination  of  these  latent  factors. So  this  basic  allows  us  to  construct a  model  that  is  has  lower  dimension. And  so  how  to  then learn  all  these  latent  factors? I  imagine  this  is  basically the  part  where  the  so  called pattern  recognition  comes  in,  right? We  need  to  recognize be  able  to  recognize  the  pattern. The  pattern  in  all  the  phases. So  what  is  this  pattern that  we're  trying  to  recognize? Okay.  So  this  will  be  unsupervised  learning. Yeah.  Another  example  of unsupervised  learning  is the  core  relation  and  structure  theming. This  has  to  do  with  basically, I  give  you  all  these  data  points. I'm  trying  to  learn  what's the  relationship  between each  of  these  different  data ps  inside  your  data  set. Okay. In  the  first  half  of  this  call, we  are  going  to  basically  focus  more  on the  rigorous  aspects  of pattern  recognition  and  using  a  framework, basically  the  basic  framework  that is  going  to  be  explainable  most  of  the  time. Okay.  The  yeah. So  the  next  few  slides, I  basically  just  for those  of  you  who  are interested  in  what  I'm  doing. R,  basically, mainly  my  my  main  research  area is  in a  signal  processing  and  machine  learning. So  some  of  the  things that  I'm  very  interested  in  would  be looking  at  how  to  do signal  processing  and learning  over  graph  networks. Graph  networks  can  consist of  things  like  molecules, transportation  transportation  networks, social  networks,  and  so  on. In  this  kind  of  research, we're  basically  coming  out  with  models. In  order  to  be  able  to  process this  kind  of  input  your  input is  not  just  an  image, but  it's  actually  a  graph and  it's  actually  more  general  than  an  image. So  we  are  basically  working on  this  kind  of  area. Yeah.  Just  to  give  you  an  example. This  is  one  of  the  models  that we  we  developed  in  2024, ah,  about  two  years  ago  already, so  not  that  new  anymore. Yeah,  why  I  want  to  highlight here  is  is  because  interestingly, this  model  actually  made  use  of  a  lot  of the  things  that  we're  going to  learn  this  course. In  this  model,  we  actually  made use  of  the  concept  of  basin  ites. We  made  use  of  the  EM  algorithm, and  we  also  made  use  of  MCMC  techniques. So  these  are  all  the  basic  things that  we're  going  to  learn  in the  first  part  of  this  course. And  of  course,  we  are  combining all  these  things  with the  deep  learning  networks, the  graph  neural  network  models. To  come  up  with  something that  that  is  robust. And  at  that  time  in  2024,  right, our  model  was  the  one  that  achieved the  best  performance  and  compared to  all  the  other  models. Yeah. I  have  also  done  some  research  together with  industry  as  well  with continental  automotive. Here,  we  are  developing  basically a  autonomous  vehicle  localization technique,  you  seeing  camera. And  to  detect  the  landmarks  in the  environment  and  being  able  to  localize, without  the  help  of  GPS, you  are  by  just  looking  at  the  environment, what  the  landmarks,  the  buildings, and  environment, the  vehicle  knows  where  it  is. Okay.  Yeah,  if  you  are  interested  you can  look  at  my  website, and  there's  also  a  video to  show  you  how  it  works. Okay.  So  any  questions  here  so  far. All  right. All  right. Okay.  Okay.  I  think we  are  good  to  continue.  Okay. So  we  are  going  on  to  the  probability  review. Oh.  All  right. So  I  hope  that  gives  you a  kind  of  a  overview  of, you  know,  what  we  are  what we  care  about  right  in  this  course. And  basically,  right,  this course  the  first  part is  more  theoretical,  right? So  that's  why  we need  to  we  are  going  to  make  use  of prob  concepts  from probability  theory  to  explain, right  to  explain,  you  know, certain  approaches  and to  motivate  to  justify, you  know,  why  we  do  things  in  a  certain  way. Okay.  There's  a  question.  Can  we contribute  to  the  process  to  Yeah. The  process  that  I  show  you  are  ones. The  ones  that  I  have  right  now is  basically  also  on  perception. So  I  have  I  have some  MSC  dissertation  projects  as  well. R  posted  in  the  porter. So  if  you  are  interested,  please do  it  back  and  you  can also  talk  to  me  if  you are  interested  to  do  other  things  as  well. Okay.  Okay. So  let's  go  on  to  the  probability  review. All  right. So  basically, the  assumption  of  this  course is  that  in  terms  of  the  background, I  hope  all  of  you  have  done  some  I  mean, I  think  all  of  you  are from  engineering  background,  right? So  the  majority  of  you  should  be  from electrical  engineering or  control  engineering  background. So  I  think  most  of  you  have  come  across like  calculus  as  well  as some  basic  probability  right in  your  undergraduate  studies. But  if  you  haven't if  you  don't  know  what's  probability, what's  the  PDF,  then  probably  Yeah. You  need  to  then  try  to read  out  about  all  these  concepts, because  we  are  going  to  make  use  of all  these  things  throughout  the  whole  course. And  of  course,  there's  this  course, EE  74  oh  one. I'm  also  teaching  this  course  as  well. That's  on  Thursday  night. And  this  74  oh  one  will basically  cover  all  the  probability  theory, the  basic  probability  theory. That  is  actually  that  will  be  useful, not  only  for  this  particular  course, but  will  be  useful in  a  lot  of  other  courses  as  well. Okay.  We  are  going  to  basically, as  you  saw  before,  our  input  feature. This  is  the  input,  the  input  feature. And  then  we  have  output  y  as  well. Of  course,  I  to restrict  to  the  supervised  lending  case. And  of  course  the  unsupervised  one, you  can  say  that  it's  slightly easier  because  you  don't  have  the. We're  going  to  model  all  of  this using  as  random  records. Meaning  that  they  are not  determined  sleep,  right. So  this  as  I  give  you  an  image. I  cannot  tell  you  in  advance  in advance  what  this  image  looks  like,  right? For  the  for  example, for  the  camera  on  the  AV,  right? It  depends  on  where  the  AV  goes. Is  it  going  to  be  in the  urban  environment  or in  the  rural  environment, or  is  it  at  a  different  road  junction  at this  junction  A  or  junction  B or  at  a  different traffic  light  and  so  on,  right? So  the  images  are  going  to  change  over  time. And  more,  right,  even  if  it's at  the  same  place  at  the same  location,  the  image  itself, right  is  going  to  be different  at  different  times  of the  day  and  also  depending on  the  dynamic  objects in  the  environment,  right. So  in  the  AV,  even  if  you  don't  go  anywhere, the  AV  is  parked  at  a  particular  location. The  camera  recording,  right, the  images  that's  recorded by  the  camera  is  going  to  be Have  different  objects  have  different  things moving  around  because  there could  be  a  pedtrian  walking  by, there's  another  car  going  by. There's  a  b  cyclist  going  by, right  A  these  are dynamic  objects  in  the  environment, and  you  don't  know  in  advance,  right, that  which  objects  are  going  to  appear, what  are  the  effects that  this  image  is  going  to  be  subject  to. So  that's  why  we  would  like  to model  the  image  itself as  something  that's  random,  right. So  I  give  you  something  that  I don't  know  what  exactly  is  in  advance,  right. But  But  I  know  what  is the  probability  distribution  of this  random  variable,  hopefully,  right? So  I  can  try  to  model  it as  something  that  is  random, but  it  is  also  controlled  in  a  certain  way that  is  controlled  by a  certain  probability  distribution. So  I  think  of  these  ads  as  something that  is  coming  out  from this  probability  distribution. Although  I  cannot  tell  you exactly  what's  the  value  of  ads, I  can  tell  you  that  the  ads  is  more likely  to  have  to  be  of  this  form or  these  ads  is  more likely  to  be  of  this  form,  right. So  for  example,  I  can  tell  you  that  it's  very likely  that  these  as  this  image  contains, for  example,  a  pedestrian  walking  by. And  it  is  very, very  unlikely  that this  image  ads  contains  an  elephant, right,  walking  across  the  road. So  so  that  could  happen,  who  knows,  right? That  but  that  is a  very  low  probability  event,  right. But  I  can  tell  you  that,  you  know, what  are  what  are the  more  likely  things that  are  going  to  happen, right  inside  this  image. And  of  course,  I  can  also  have  be  able  to quantify  what  is  unlikely  to  be  the  x. That's  why  this  is a  very  powerful  framework,  right? I  don't  need  to  tell  you  exactly what  is  the  X  in  advance, but  I'm  able  to  model  it,  right? I  am  able  to  model  it  using  model using  probability  distribution.  Okay? So  we'll  see  why  this  is  important,  right? In  the  rest  of  the  course, we'll  be  making  use  of  of this  probability  distribution  to help  us  to  infer, to  be  able  to  infer  infer  or  estimate,  right? What  are  the  likely  outcomes? And  this  is  really, right  what  all  AI  is  about. So  AI  artificial  intelligen is  basically  you  know, basically  the  model  is basically  trying  to  do, right,  what  is  the  most  reasonable  thing, right  in  the  next  step? The  most  likely  the  likely  thing that  will  solve  a  given  task or  a  given  problem  right  to  the  AI. Okay.  So  how  do  we  model  a  random  variable? So  random  variable  is  is  something  we think  of  as  something that  the  rango  values like  with  certain  probabilities. So  it's  not  fit  it's  not like  X  equals  to  three,  right? It's  not  determinist.  So  it  can  be  as. So  can  be  equals  to  certain  value,  right? X  one  with  certain. Sorry. Is  that  a  question?  Okay. So  it's  not  a  fixed  value  X can  be  equals  to X  one  with  certain  probability, say  0.0  0.2, right  with  certain  probability  0.2. It  could  be  It  could  be  equals  to  two, another  value  with  certain  probability, say  0.3, it  could  be  equals  to  another  value  S  three, with  certain  probability  0.5,  right. Okay. So  before  you  observe the  you  don't  know whether  it's  X  one  at  two  s  three. You  only  know  that  what  is  the  bd what  is  the  chunks  that  is  going  to  be  X  one? What's  the  chunks  is  going to  be  a  two  and  three. Okay.  So  we  model this  so  called  chunks,  right. Chance  of  using  probability  mass  function in  the  case  where  it's  discrete. This  is  for  probability  mass  function is  when  your  takes  on  discrete  values, and  then  we  call  it a  probability  density  function when  takes  on  continuous  values  real  values. Okay? Basically  we  will  just basically  just  restrict  ourselves  to PDF  because  you  can  actually think  of  the  discrete  value  case, the  PMF  as  a  special  case  of  PDF. Your  PDF  is  basically maybe  something  like  this. You  will  have  this  this  is  the  PDF  of  this. X  can  be  continuous  value and  the  PDF  is  basically  telling  you, right  the  area  under the  PDF  curve  is  telling  you  what  is the  probability  that  is within  this  particular  interval. So  this  dy. This  area  under  the  curve is  basically  telling  you, what  is  the  probability  that  X is  within  this  particular  interval  A. What  is  the  probability  that X  is  between  A  and  B. So  that  will  be given  by  the  area  under  this  curve. Okay. So  that's  what  the  probability density  function  is  about. And  of  course,  we  can  model  the  Y  right. So  the  output  can  also  be  random,  right? Because  your  output  may depend  on  other  factors  other  than the  given  X.  Yeah. So  we'll  treat  all  these  things as  random  effects. It's  not  just  the  x  itself. So  we  will  model the  input  and  output as  a  pair  of  random  elements. So  he  has  a  joint  PDF. So  he's  called  the  joint  PDF.  Okay. And  of  course,  in the  unsupervised  learning  case, it  is  just  the  ads,  there's  no  Y,  right? So  does  have  a  single  PDF  for  the  a. Okay. Let's  look  at  some  examples  of  famous  PDF. The  simplest  one  that  you  can  have is  the  Bui  distribution. In  this  case,  your  ad can  only  take  on  two  values, either  zero  or  one. So  this  binary. Binary  random  variable. Yeah,  I  can  only  take  on  the  value  zero,  one, and  then  it  has  the  probability  of  taking on  the  value  equals  to  one  is  even  by  data, and  of  course,  the  probability  of it  being  zero  will  become  one  minus  data. In  terms  of  notation,  he's also  common  to  write  it  in  this  way. So  this  guy  is  Basically the  generic  form  is  just  like the  side  given  data, but  since  it's  coming from  a  famous  random  variable, we  can  give  you  a  special  notation. So  B  this  just  stands  for  Bern, this  is  a  Bern  PDF evaluated  a  particular  X  value, and  data  is  the  parameter  of  the  PDF. So  it  equals  to  data  if  X  equals  to one  and  one  minus  data  x  equals  to  zero. It  turns  out  that  this  PDF  can  be  write in  written  in  a  very  compat  form. So  we  can  see  that  it's actually  equals  to  this  formula,  right? You  can  see  that  this  formula  is  correct, right  because  in  this  case, in  the  case  where  X  equals  to  one, this  formula  becomes  data to  the  11  minus  data  to  zero, right?  So  it's  a  data. When  X  equals  to  zero, it  becomes  data  zero to  one  minus  data  to  one  minus  zero. So  it  is  one  minus  data.  Okay. So  the  Bai  instead  of  writing  in  this  foam, you  can  actually  write  it  in a  very  compact  way  in  this  way. If  you  want  to  be  more  explicit, you  can  also  write  it  in  this  way using  the  indicator  function. This  indicator  function  is  equals  to  one if  whatever  you  are indicating  is  true  and equals  to  zero  is  four. So  you  can  see  that  in  this  case, when  x  equals  to  one  is  equals  to  data, and  this  one  will  become  zero. This  part  will  become  one, it  will  just  become  data. When  X  equals  to  zero, this  p  zero,  this  part  will  go  away. This  will  become  one,  so you  are  left  with  one  minus  data. Either  way,  is  fine. This  way  may  be  slightly more  general  because  sometimes  it may  deal  with  the  case  where  is a  either  one  or  minus  one,  right? So  in  the  binary  case,  I  mean, most  of  the  time  we assume  that  X  is  either  zero  or  one,  right? But  maybe  in  certain  applications, for  some  reason,  you  want the  x  to  be  either  minus  one  or  one. So  then  this  formula will  not  be  correct  anymore,  right? So  you  can't  use  this  formula  anymore,  right. So  then  y,  then  your  formula  will  become  X equals  to  plus  one  and  one minus  theta  equal  to  minus  for. So  this  will  allow  you to  write  the  formula  in  a  more  general  way. Okay.  So  numerical  example  here,  ski. Okay.  Another  one  is  the  uniform. So  this  is  another  very  common  common  PDF. So  it  is  flat. So  the  PDF  is  flat over  a  certain  interval  A  to  B. Of  course,  because  the  area under  the  curve  has  to  sum  out  one. So  that's  why  the  height over  here  is  one  over b  minus  a.  Yeah. In  case  you  don't  know. Basically  every  PDF, when  I  integrate  the  PDF, it  has  to  be  equal  to  one. This  is  by  definition. We  always  normalize  the  PDF  in such  a  way  that  the  total  area under  the  PDF  curve  is  always  equals  to  one. Okay,  exponential. So  these  are  exponential, so  we  can  see  that  the  PDF  decays in  an  exponential  way is  controlled  by  some  parameter  Lambda, right. Okay.  Okay. And  then  basically  these  are some  common  PDF  that  a  lot  of  people  use. But  of  course,  they  are  not  the  only  ones are  some  of  the  basic  ones. So  in  terms  of  the  probability  properties, all  these  properties  will apply  to  any  PDF,  right. It's  not  only  the  ones  that  I  so use  now.  So  this  is  general. So  these  are  properties that  apply  to  every  PDF. So  the  first  one  is  that  the  joint  PDF, if  you  are  interested  to  find the  probability,  in  general,  right, if  you  want  to  find  the  probability of  within  any  given  set  A, you  just  have  to  integrate over  the  set  of  interests. So  we  just  take  the  PDF  and  integrate over  whatever  you  are trying  to  find  the  probability  form,  right? So  for  example,  here, if  this  is  my  A,  right,  is  my  A. I  just  basically  I'm  trying  to  find the  area  under  the  curve  for  this  part  A. And  note  that  your  A  can can  be  discontinuous. So  for  example,  your  A, right,  your  A  can actually  consist  of  two  parts. So  it  can  does  not have  to  be  a  continuous  interval. So  basically,  right,  in  any  case, I  basically  trying  to  find the  area  under  the  PDF  curve. Over  the  whole  region of  interest  that  I'm  interested  in. Similarly,  for  the  jot PDF  is  the  same,  right? So  T  of  this  as  one big  random  variable  by  itself. If  I'm  interested  to  find the  probability  of  of the  pair  of  random  variables  is, you  know,  belonging  to  a  certain  set. Of  course,  I  just  integrate  the  jot  PDF. And  then  to  get  the  marginal  PDF, I  just  have  to  integrate  out the  random  variable  that  I'm not  interested  in  that  doesn't appear  in  the  marginal. Similarly  from  here,  you can  see  immediately  that P  of  Y  is  the  same  thing. So  now  I  will  be  integrating  out  the  X. To  get  the  X,  you integrate  out  the  y  to get  the  Y  integrate  out. H,  sorry.  Some  notation  first. So,  in  the  in the  slides  and  in  most  of  the  textbooks. Usually  we  are  being  lazy. So  we  will  usually  write  just  P  as  instead  of p  subscript  s  of  x. So  basically  the  understanding is  that  if  I  see  a  small  ad, my  corresponding  random  variable  is  the p.  So  this  is just  a  short  hand  notation  for  this. Similarly,  this  is  a shorthand  notation  for  this. Okay. And  then  we  have  the  conditional PDF  is  defined  in  this  way. It's  just  the  joint  PDF divided  by  the  marginal. And  of  course,  from  this  formula, you  can  see  immediately  that  you  can basically  to  compute  the  joint  PDF. We  can  basically  take  the  marginal  of  X, then  multiplied  by  the  conditional  y  given  x. So  in  particular.  For  example, if  you  have  X  Y  Z, I  can  always  write  it  as  P  X, probability  of  Y  given  X, and  then  probability  of  z  given  X  and  Y. So  the  basic  condition on  those  things  that  come  before  it. Of  course,  if  you  don't  like  this  ordering, you  can  always  do  let's  say P  and  then  for  example,  z  given  Y. That's  given  y  and  t.  This  is  also valid  depends  on  how  you want  to  expand  out  the  joint  PDF. Very  importantly,  we  have  this  thing  called bas  Bas  Bash  Yeah, it's  actually  so  this is  just  a  definition,  right. This  part  is just  the  definition  of  the  conditional. And  then  we  basically  changed the  top  to  condition of  X  first  instead  of  y,  right. So  the  good  thing  about  the  nice  thing  about base  rule  is  that  you  can  see that  this  one  originally  is  condition  of  Y. And  then  for various  reasons  that  we'll  see  later, you  want  to  convert  it  to  condition  of X  instead  because  it  turns out  that  in  your  lot  cases, calculating  the  conditional  distribution  on the  input  feature  vector  is  easier than  trying  to  calculate the  conditional  condition  on  the  output. So  that's  why  this  base  is  very  important. In  a  lot  of  the  cases, we  want  to  for  example, we  want  to  find  this  condition  on  Y, then  you  can  apply  base  because  I  can find  the  condition  on  eas  of  course, I  also  need  the  PX  and  also  the  PY. But  in  a  lot  of  cases,  I actually  don't  care  about  the  P  Y. So  this  one  will  be  the  most  important  thing. Okay.  And  then  we have  the  concept  of  independence. If  x  and  y  are  independent, then  in  this  case, the  condition  on  the  x, y  condition  on  is  the  same  as as  P  y  out  condition. So  you  can  see  that  the  joint  PDF  is the  product  of  the  two  in  the  PDS. So  that's  in the  case  when  they  are  independent. So  in  this  course, we  are  going  to  make  the  assumption that  the  data  set  that  we  are  given, either  the  training  data  set  or the  testing  data  set  is  always  IID, meaning  that  all  the  data points  independent and  identically  distribution. So  they  are  independent,  so  I  can  basically to  find  the  joint  PDF, I  can  multiply  the  individual  PDF  square. And  they're  identically  distributed, meaning  that  they  have  the  same  PDF, identical  distribution. So  basically  the  P  here, the  function  P  here  is  the  same. Nos  that  the  I  different  values. Okay. So  that  will  then  give  me the  joint  PDF  for  the  whole  data  set. And  we're  going  to  make  use of  most  of  the  time  we're  going  to convert  using  the  apply the  lock  function  to  it. Okay.  So  if  I  apply  the  lock  function, this  product,  becomes  a  summation. Okay.  And  this  makes  calculation  easier. So  there's  no  particular  reason why  we  want  to  apply  the  lock  function. As  you  will  see  later,  you will  just  make  the  calculation  easier. The  lot  function.  This  lot  function here  I'm  referring  to the  natural  log  function. In  terms  of  notation,  you  can also  write  it  as  LN,  right. So  I  think  some  of  you  may prefer  to  use  Le  prefer to  use  LG  LG means  the  natural  lo  L  also  the  natural  lot. Yeah. And  very  importantly, this  log  function  is  a  increasing  function. Is  increasing. So  it's  a  increasing  function, which  means  that  when  I apply  this  lot  function  to the  probability  to  whatever that  I'm  that  I'm  trying  to  optimize, is  not  going  to change  the  optimization,  right? Because  it's  a  increasing  function. When  I  apply  a  increasing  function to  another  function  that I'm  trying  to  optimize, right,  the  optimal  value still  remains  the  same  as  before. Okay. And  of  course,  the  other  good  thing is  I  apply  the  lot, the  product  becomes  some  becomes easy.  As  you  will  see  later. Okay. So  some  other  basic  properties,  expectation. So  y. So  I  hope  all  of  you  remember what  is  expectation. So  is  this  given  by  this  formula. And  of  course,  if  you  want  to find  the  expectation  of a  function  of  a  random  variable,  then  one. Some  properties  of  expectations, expectation  of  X  plus  Y  is just  the  sum  of  the  individual  expectations. If  there's  a  constant  C  times  X, the  constant  can  bring outside  the  expectation. If  they  are  and  y  independent, then  the  expectation  is actually  just  the  product of  the  individual  expectations. Yeah,  you  may  also come  across  this  conditional  expectation. So  now  I  condition  on  y equals  to  some  value,  small  Y. So  if  you  look  at  this  formula,  right, you  should  be  able  to  guess  what this  guy  looks  like,  right. So  now  I'm  just  conditioning  on  y,  right. So  that's  why  the  PDF  from the  X  from  P  X  is  now  changed  to  P  X  given  Y. Okay.  So  this  conditioning  change what  is  the  underlying  PDF. Okay.  So  the  okay, some  exercise  for  you, just  to  get  yourself if  you  if  you  had  forgotten, you  know,  about  some  of these  things  about  expectation and  all  that,  right? I  think  it's  a  good  exercise, you  just  try  try  and  find the  expectation  of  these  three  common  PDF. Okay.  But  of  course,  I  mean, the  answer  is  well  known. It's  just  for  you  to  practice,  right? Just  get  yourself  formed  with  the  formula. Okay.  Variance.  Variance  is  defined  to be  the  square  distance of  the  random  value,  right. How  far  away  it  is from  the  expected  value  and then  take  the  square  and then  take  the  expectation. Okay.  So  you  have  this  formula  over  here. How  to  get  this  formula  is  you  basically expand  out  this  thing  and  then  you  get  this. And  then  we  have  co  variance coarance  between  X  and  Y. So  the  co  variance  is  defined  in  this  way. When  you  expand  this  out, you  can  see  the  simplification will  be  just  this. One  important  property  about  co  variance  is that  if  I'm  independent, if  X  and  Y  are  independent, then  your  co  variance  will  be  equal  to  zero. So  this  is  what  we  call unc  related  random  pose. But  unc  related  doesn't  mean  independence. Okay.  So  if  they're  independent, If  x  and  y,  x  and  y  are  independent, then  implies  the  cov  B  equals  to. But  covariance  equals  to  zero, it  doesn't  imply  x  and  y  being  independent. There  are  counter  examples  that  you  can create  whereby  the  covariance  equals  to  zero, but  X  and  Y  are not  independent  with  each  other. Yeah,  and  then  you  have  the formula  for  the  variance. So  you  can  see  that  if  they  are  independent, if  y  are  independent, these  covans  will  go  to  zero. So  then  you  just  the two  variants  add  up  together. But  in  general,  you  have  this  coverings  term. Okay.  Another  exercise  here to  find  the  variants  of these  what's  that  random  variables? Three  PDF.  Okay,  good. So  let's  try some  some  simple  exercises  on  the  clap. Okay.  So  I'm  going  to  use base  roof  quite  regularly. So  make  sure  that  you know  what's  base. Okay. So  I  think  most  of  you  got  me. Yeah.  So  base  rule,  right? So  the  PDF  of  of  Data  di. So  we  can  write  it  as the  joint  PDF  divided  by  P.  And  then  of, if  I  expand  the  top differently  from  this  one,  you  will  become, You  can  now  condition  of  data  instead, right  given  data  and  then  P  divided  by  P  X. So  this  is  your  base  route. So  we  can  see  that  it  correspond  with dist  most  of  bottom  right. The  first  one  is  incorrect,  right? So  because  you  can  see  the  bottom  is  wrong, and  the  third  one  is also  incorrect  The  bottom  is. Okay.  Next  question. Okay.  So  I  think  most  of  you  have  tried. So  this  is  a  given  data  set.  But  of  course. I  mean,  in  real  applications, the  data  set  will  be  much  bigger,  right? So  this  is  just  a  toy  example, but  the  concept  is  the  same. So  so  in  this  case, your  data  set  has  only  three  training  points, or  three  examples. And  we  know  that  the  IID independent  and  identically  distributed. So  it  means  that  the  probability of  the  PDF  of this  dataset  will  be  just  the  product, right  of  the  individual  PDF of  the  individual  data  point. And  then  the  identical  distributor  means  that this  PDF  right  for  all  of  them  are  the  same. And  here  we  are  given  that the  PDF  is  exponential,  right? So  exponential  means  is  is  Sorry. So  as  bone  is  data  E  minus  theta  x,  right? Okay.  So  the  parameter  here  is  data. Just  now  in  the  slide  is written  as  long  do,  right. So  I  hope  you  are  flexible enough  to  know  what  is  the  formula,  right? So  you  have  data  E  two  power  minus  data. So  here  in  the  first  one  theta and  11  is  0.2  -0.3  times  theta, and  multiply  by  data  gain E  minus  x20  0.1  times  theta. And  then  is  the  one is  theta  E  minus  three  is  0.7  times  data. Once  you  provide  this  data, and  then  1.1  -1.1  data. Okay.  So  so  should  be  number  one,  right? Okay.  So  somehow  yeah. Most  of  you  number  of  you  got  number  two. Okay.  So  please  make  sure  you  go  back  and understand  number  one  is  the  correct  one. Oh,  let's. H. Yeah. So  maybe  yeah,  I  think  we  should  take a  more  break  here while  we  are  doing  this  question. Maybe  let's  take  a  5  minutes  break. Come  back  at  now  is 28  Come  back  at  around  245. Okay.  Slightly  more  than  5  minutes. Okay.  So  we  take  a  slight  break  here  and  then we'll  restart  25.  Okay. But  in  the  meantime, W  out  this  question  as  well. H. H. A. Okay.  So,  let's  get  that. So  for  this  question,  right, we  have  Let's  at  the  variance  of  x. In  the  case  where  you have  a  zero  expectation. You  see  that  according  to the  definition,  this  is  the  variance. If  this  is  equals  to  zero, then  the  variance  is  expectation a  right  then  similarity  for  the  co  variance. If  you  look  at  the  definition, The  definition  is  given  by  this. If  the  expectation  equals  to  zero, then  this  expectation  of  X  stops  y. Okay. In  general,  your  variance, your  variance  equals  to  variance  of  X  plus variance  of  y  plus  two  variance  of  x  y. So  if  you  cut  in  the  formulas when  the  expectation  equals  to  zero. So  that's  why  this  variance  of  six  d, variance  of  y  d  and co  variance  expectation  of  s. So  the  answer  will  be  true. Okay.  All  good. Okay.  Then  let's  move  on. Okay.  So  yeah. So  for  marching  the  name, most  of  the  time  we  are  dealing  with high  dimensional  feature  vectors. Okay.  So  for  example, right,  we  saw  that  the  image,  for  example, image  with  256  by  256  pieces,  right, and  move  it  has  it has  three  channels,  three  channels. So  if  I  put  the  ads, I  take  all  these  adds  value and  just  write  it  into  a  column  form, right,  book  everything  step together  into  a  column  form. You  can  see  that  this  is a  very  high  dimensional  vector, right,  256  times  256  times  three.  Okay. Okay. So  in  most  of  the  cases, we  are  actually  dealing  with so  called  vector  variables vector  u  vector  features. All  right.  Okay. So  we  write  the  X  a  vector  and  x1x2  to  x  n, these  are  the  basic  just  the components  vector. So  the  expectation  of  a  vector  is  just taking  the  expectation  of each  of  the  components.  Okay. So  we  will  treat all  all  of  these  are  random  variables,  right? So  the  X  one  is  random, X  two  is  random. All  the  components  are  random,  right. So  it's  a  vector  of  random  variables. Okay.  So  and  then  yeah, so  we  can  define  the  expectation  this  way. If  A  is  a  determin matric,  same  as  before,  right, A  times  S  is  itself  another  random  factor. Because  A  is  determinic, you  can  bring  the  A  outside of  the  expectation.  Okay. So  what's  more  interesting  here  is  that  now I  can  talk  about  covariance of  the  vector  itself,  right. Remember  just  now  we  were  talking  about co  variance  of  two  random  variables, covariance  of  X  and  Y. But  now  because  my  a is  itself  a  random  vector, consists  of  many  random variables  inside  the  vector. I  can  talk  about  the  covariance  between the  different  components of  the  random  vector. So  the  common  notation  is  right  it  as Sigma  X  is  just  according  to  this  definition. So  this  definition  X  minus  a  tis  aside, this  is  just  a  com  vector. And  then  you  take the  transpos  and  multiply  this. We  can  see  that  basically  you are  finding  the  co  variance. This  guy  would  be the  co  variance  of  X  one  with  itself, co  variance  of  X  1  bar. This  is  X  one  minus  expectation  of  X  one. C  variance  of  X  1  bar  with  X  two  bar, so  variance  X  1  bar  with  X  bar. So  to  Okay. So  it's  just  basically a  huge  matrix  or  covariances. Okay.  So  you  can say  it  can  be  written  in  a  very  complet  form. We  usually  don't  want  to  write out  in  these  huge  matrix  form,  right? So  we  can  write  in  a  very  compat  form using  vector  notation. Yeah.  I  encourage  you to  try  to  verify  this  formula. So  ing  the  definition,  right, using  this  definition,  you  should  be  able to  verify  that  this  formula  is  correct. Okay.  So  now  we  can  also have  cross  conveyance. So  now  we  have  two  vectors,  X  and  Y. Both  X  and  Y  are  vectors. I  want  to  find  the  cross conveyance  between  that,  right. So  so  you  can  see, I  basically  put  the  minus  is  a  maxim. This  is  a  core  vector,  and  then  this  is a  transpo  This  is  a  row  vector. So  basically,  I'm  finding the  covariance  between  each  component and  together  with  with respect  to  the  each  component  in  y,  right. The  covans  between  each  component of  X  and  each  component  of  y. Okay. Then  there  are  some  formulas  here that  that  may  be  useful. But  most  of  the  time,  yeah, you  will  not  really  need  to  make  use  of this  formula  except  maybe  in the  second  half  of  the  course. So  you  may  need  to  make  use of  some  of  this  formula  here. And  then  this  formula are  actually  very  easy  to  prove. Yes.  Formula.  So  now  at  the  beginning, I  say,  don't  need  to  memorize  anything. So  So  most  people will  just  make  use  of  these  formulas  as  es. You  don't  need  to  go  and  try to  derive  them  yourself, because  actually  you  can do  it  algebraically  you  can  derive  them. And  so  I  guess  these  are in  the  kind  of  thing  that you  write  in  your  reference  sheet, you  do  not  want  to  go  and  try to  memorize  them  by  no  point. And  most  people  will  at  this  matrix  book. This  is  a  link  over  here. There  is  a  collection  of  all  these  kind of  vector  differentiation  formulas. So  for  example,  that  sold  you. Basically  here  how  to  get  this  guy. So  you  have  A  transpose  x. So  it  just  basically write  it  in  terms  of  factor  form, write  up  the  component. So  A  transpose  x  is  nothing  but  A  one. So  if  you  write  it  out. Okay.  And  then  I'm  taking differentiation  with  respect to  x  the  vector  x. This  notation  just  means  I'm taking  differentiation  with  respect  to  X  one, differentiation  with  respect to  X  two,  and  so  on. Okay.  I'm  taking  differentiation with  respect  to  all  the  components  of  X. No.  So  if  I  take the  differentiation  with  respect  to  X  one, you  look  at  this  guy,  but  the  partial delity  with  respect  a  one, you  get  A  one,  right. All  the  other  terms.  Only  the  first  term is  A  one  times  X  one,  right? All  the  other  terms  don't  have  one  in  side. So  when  you  take  the  partial delity  with  respect  to  X  one, you  just  get  A  one,  right? The  second  one  will  get  a  two  and  so. Okay.  So  that's  why  at  the  end, you  just  get  A,  the  factor  A. Okay.  So  that's  how  you  get  this  formula. Similarly,  you can  actually  go  and  expand  out  and then  you  will  be  able  to show  that  all  these  formulas  are  correct. It's  very  tedious. So  these  have  been  already  worked  out. You  don't  need  to  try  to  derive  them  itself. Okay.  So  now  we  come  to parametric  versus  non  parametric  models. In  this  course,  we  are  going  to  basically mainly  talk  about  parametric  models. In  the  parametric  model, we  are  basic  assuming  that my  model  is  controlled  by some  parameter  data,  right. So  so  basically, I  know  the  form  of the  probability  distribution, and  desat  that  the  parameter of  the  probability  distribution  is  unknown. Okay.  And  moreover, this  data  is  is  a  fixed  number  of  parameters. So  for  example,  in  your  neural  network, right,  you  have  the  weights inside  your  neural  network. At  the  beginning,  you don't  know  what  exactly  are  the  weights, what  are  the  true  values  of the  par  of  these  weights inside  your  neural  network. And  basically,  we  will  just  treat  it  as some  unknown  data  that  we want  to  use  the  training  data to  to  find  the  most  optimal  data  value. In  the  first  half  of  this  course, we'll  talk  about  simple  parani  model. So  we'll  assume  that  it  comes  from some  family  that  you  know  about. For  example,  just  now  will  talk about  the  exponential  distrition. We  just  know  that  we  assume  that the  data  comes  from  the exponential  distribution, but  we  don't  know  what  is the  parameter  of the  exponential  distribution. So  in  the  exponential  distribution, you  have  let's  say  we  use Lambda  or  data  data. So  we  know  that  it  has  this  form, right  e  minus  data  a  bigger. Okay. So  this  is the  exponential  distribution.  Right. So  data  can  be  any  value, right  can  be  0.1, can  be  100,  can  be  five, can  be,  you  know, any  value  that  we  don't  know. But  we  assume  that  we  know  the  form, the  shape  of  this  probability  discription. And  now  our  job  is  to  try  to find  the  so  called  optimal  data  value. So  basically,  then  we are  given  the  training  data. To  find  based  on the  training  data  that  were  given, we  want  to  find  the  best  data  value that  fits  the  data. Okay. So  that's  called  training  right. So  by  using  parametric  model, we  already  assume  right that  he  has  certain  form. So  it's  actually  is  faster  to  train,  right? You  just  have  to  find  the  optimal  data. But  of  course,  we  need  to  make assumptions  about  the  data  distribution. On  the  other  hand,  for so  called  non  parametric  models, In  fact,  this  is  a  misnormal. When  we  say  parametric  model, it  doesn't  mean  that  it  has  no  parameters. Nonparametric  actually  means  that  there's no  constraint  on  the  number  of  parameters. So  parametric  here  actually  says not  number  of  parameters. So  whereas  here,  this is  a  fixed  number  of  parameters,  right. The  data  is  a  fixed  vector,  right. We  assume  that  it's  fixed. But  here,  the  non  Parmar  sic  actually means  that  you  can  be  infinite, right,  you  can  have  a  lot  of  parameters. So  in  the  non  param  model, your  number  of  parameters can  actually  grow  with the  amount  of  training  data that  you  are  given. So  this  is  actually a  much  more  complicated  model, but  it  can  be  more  flexible. Although,  you  know,  for  large  data  sets, it  can  be  intractable. So  just  to  give  a  very  simple  example,  right? For  example,  you  look  at the  case  of  clustering. You  are  given  a  set of  data  and  you  want  to  cluster. So  for  example,  start  off with  some  data  points that  put  like  this  side. So  if  I  only  give  you  these  data  points, you  may  think  that  there's  only  one  cluster. We  will  assume  that the  model  has  only  one  cluster, but  now  I  give  you  more  data  points. Now  you  have  see  more  data  points,  right. You  may  think  that  the  model now  think  that  there are  actually  two  clusters. So  you  can  see  that  the  number of  parameters  in  the  model, right  from  one  cluster  becomes  two  clusters. I  can  grow  with  the  number of  data  points  that  you're  seeing. Okay.  Yeah. But  in  this  class, we  will  maybe  restrict  more to  the  parametric  models, though  we  may  also talk  about  maybe  a little  bit  about  non  parametric, but  most  of  the  time  we'll  be talking  about  parametric  models. Okay. So  for  parametric  models,  for  example, right,  you  look  at  the  case where  you  have  the  AV. Okay. So  the  AV  sensors,  right, the  sensors  on  the  autonomous  vehicle  can include  things like  camera,  dta  and  so,  right. So  you  have  the  image,  you have  the  sound  data  from  the  microphone. But  you  have  La,  data, data,  data,  et  cetera. So  these  are  basically inputs  data  you  get from  the  sensors  or  hardware. So  the  Part  nine actually  typical  part  nine  looks  like  this. Your  data  comes  from  the  hardware  sensors. And  then  inside  the  hardware  sensor, they  will  usually  do  some  sort of  process  pre  processing, right  to  make  the,  for  example, clean  up  some  of  the  noise  inside  the  data. Before  it  comes  to the  pattern  recognition  part. And  then  the  pattern  recognition  part is  supposed  to  output, right  the  output,  for  example, the  the  label,  or  the  object  recognition. So  that's  why  this  is  called  data  size. We  input  the  data, we  process  it,  we  come  up  with  the  size. So  that's  why  it's  called  data  size, and  this  is  the  overall  framework  of the  signal  processing  of  machine  name  Pine. So  yeah. In  terms  of  the  pre  processing, this  is  more  of  the  hardware  platform, past  or  procedure  that is  done  in  the  hardware  platform. So  we  are  not  going  to  go into  details  about  that. Here,  we  only  consider  cases where  the  raw  data  has  been  pre  processed, and  then  we  are  going  to  assume  that, whatever  x  that  we  have, this  is  the  part  the  X  is here  goes  inside  the  model and  come  up  with  the  y, right  or  some  other  kind  of  output. In  the  parametric  model, we  are  going  to  assume  that  I  give  you a  one  feature  vector. So  at  the  beginning,  I have  a  feature  vector  a. I  go  as  is  basically generated  by  some  probability  distrition, so  we  will  assume  that this  ad  is  a  random  variable. And  then  of  course,  we  have the  parameter,  right? This  is  the  model  parameter  data. Data  is. And  O  job  is  to  try  to learn  or  infer  this  data from  the  training  data, right,  the  observed  data  data  given  ads. Okay. So  basically,  we  hope  to  be  able  to  try to  learn  what  is  the  posterior  distribution. What  is  the  property  distribution  of data  given  your  observation  ads. So  if  I  know  this  posterior  distribution, it  basically  tells  me  how  likely this  particular  value  of the  model  parameter  is  going  to  be, given  that  I've  seen this  particular  data  point,  right, this  fase  vector,  what  should  be  the, you  know,  how  likely  this  data, this  parameter  value  is  going  to  be. Okay.  So  this  is  this  posterior  distribution actually  tells  you  a  lot  of  things  right. It's  very  important. It  tells  you.  If  I give  you  one  particular  value  of  data, I  can  plug  into  this  posterior  and  you  will tell  me  how  likely  it  is  going  to  be,  right? And  you  can  imagine actually  next  week  we'll  talk  about  this, we  will  always  to find  the  most  likely  one,  right? We  will  try  to  find  the  data  that  will maximize  this  posterior  distribution. Now.  But  today,  we'll  just look  at  what  this  particular  distribution  is. So  from the  De  sound  from  the  base  rule,  right. So  this  is  a  PDF  of  data  given  x, you  can  write  in  in  this  form,  right. So  joint  PDF  divided  by  the  P  x. And  then  so  here, this  is  your  base  rule, right,  you'll  expand  out, you  take  out  the  P  data, so  now  it  becomes  conditional on  on  on  data  instead  of  a. Okay. So  you  can  see  that  because  we  are  trying  to find  the  optimal  data  value and  the  data  only  appears  at  the  top  right, it  doesn't  appear  at  the  bottom. So  actually,  the  bottom  doesn't  matter, right  Because  we  only care  about  the  data  value,  right? Only  the  top  matters. So  you  can  write  it  as a  proportional  using  this  simple  means proportional  to  up  to a  constant  this  PX is  a  constant  in  terms  of  data. So  we  can  just  care  about  the  top. So  the  top  here  is  this  PDF  of X  given  data  multiply by  the  PDF  of  data  itself. So  this  red  color  one,  this  is called  the  livelihood  function.  Okay. And  this  one  is  called  the  pyro, So  you  can  think  of  this. So  this  likelihood  function  basically tells  you  how  likely this  particular  data  is given  that  the  model  parameter is  of  this  particular  value. So  that's  imagine  that my  model  is  already  fixed  right, I  have  a  fixed  value  of  data. How  likely  is  it  going  to  generate the  observed  data  as  that  you're  seeing. And  then,  of  course,  I have  the  py  distribution here  is  basically  telling  you  how  likely, right,  this  particular  data value  is  going  to  be? For  example,  you  are  the  expert of  this  system,  right? You  are  the  one  who  designed the  let's  say  the  Lida  sensor, right  the  Dia  sensor  on  the  AV. And  then  the  Da  sensor has  certain  parameters,  right, certain  system  parameters  that will  affect  this  data  value,  right. So  As  a  system  designer, you  actually  have  a  good  knowledge of  what  is  the  range  of  possible  data  values? So  you  already  have  you know  that  this  data  is  likely  to  be  between, say  minus  one  to  one  instead  of  from Bigger  than  two  or less  than  minus  two,  right? So  you  basically  have  a  belief  that what  this  data  correct value  of  data  should  be. So  this  can  be  then  put inside  this  paral  information. So  this  prior  information  is  basically the  belief  that  you  have before  you  see  any  observation, right,  you  haven't  seen  the  ads  yet. So  the  x  doesn't  appear  inside  here,  right. So  after  you  observe  the  ads, After  you  have  observed  the  ads. Now  I'm  trying  to  compute the  posterior  distribution,  right. I'm  trying  to  find which  value  of  data,  right? If  I  give  you  a  particular  value  of  data, how  likely  it  is  to  be  the  one  that generated  this  observed  value  of  ads. Okay.  So  this  formula actually  allows  us  to compute  the  posterior,  right? So  I  have  the  likelihood  function  here, which  is  usually  something  that's  known. So  again,  this  likelihood  is  something that  depends  on  on  the  system,  right. Now  I  give  you  the  data  value, and  you  will  have an  assumption  of  how the  x  is  being  generated. So  the  data  value  is  basically the  one  that  controls  the  whole  system. So  if  this  data  value  is  already fits  like  a  condition  on  this  data  value, I  know  how  likely  is  it going  to  generate this  particular  observation. No. So  that's  why  it's  called  the  likelihood. So  I  can  then  use  the  likelihood  multiply  by a  pirate  in  order  to  compute  the  posterior. Okay. So  here  you  can  see that  without  loss  of  generality, we  can  basically  ignore  the  p  at  the  bottom, because  it  doesn't  depend  on  data. And  why  I  say there's  no  loss  of  generality,  right? Because  even  if  I  just  tell  you  this  guy, you  can  recover  this  easy,  right.  Yeah. Be  even  if  you  just  know  this, you  can  always  recover  it  by integrating  with  respect  to  data. Because  this  guy  is just  the  joint  PDF,  right?  Okay. And  then  if  you  want  to  find  P, you  can  just  integrate  with  respect  to  data. Okay. Another  remark  over  here  is that  I  F  all  these  probaty  distributions, I  only  actually  really  need  to  know the  probability  distribution  up to  a  functional  form. I  don't  need  to  know the  exact  constant,  right? I  just  need  to  know  that  it's  proportional  to something  F  X  is  negative  function. This  is  because  this  proportion just  means  that  right  the  PS equals  to  some  constant. And  this  constant  is  fit  side, cannot  be  anything  else because  the  fact  is  that the  PDF  right  is  defined to  be  the  integral  has  to  be  one,  right. So  this  is  by  definition.  No. So  the  area  under the  PDF  curve  is  always  equals  to  one,  right? So  which  means  that  this  C, this  c  value  is  fit. Even  if  you  don't know  what  is  the  exact  C  value, we  know  that  there  can only  be  one  value,  right? There's  only  one  need  C  value  and and  so  that's  why as  long  as  we  know what's  the  functional  form, we  know  exactly  what  is  the  PDF,  actually. Okay.  So  if  I  plug  in  the  F  X  over  here. So  you  can  see  the  C. This  has  to  be  what's  one,  right. So  that's  why  C  is  always  one  over  this  F  X. So  if  I  tell  you  what's  F,  I  I  theory, I  can  compute  the  C.  And then  I  know  exactly  what's  the  PDF. Of  I  mean,  there's no  point  to  go  and  compute  the  C,  right? This  is  what  we  call the  normal  normalization  constant. So  actually  you  can  compute  the  C, but  there's  no  need  to. And  later  on, you  will  see  that  in  some  cases, especially  when  your  X  is a  high  dimensional  factor,  right? To  compute  the  C  is  very  difficult,  right. So  there's  actually  no  point  to  compute  a  C. Okay. So  we  talk  about basically  computing  the  posterior, using  the  likelihood  and the  viral  distributions. And  then  we  want  to  to  try  to  find  the  data, a  suitable  so  called  optimal  data  value  that will  fit  the  observed  as  as  much  as  possible. Um  in  most  of  the  cases, this  is  not  so  easy  to find,  basically  to  compute, to  be  able  to  figure  out  what  this posterior  although  there's  I  mean, you  can  just  multiply  these  two  together, but  if  you  want  to find  what  exactly  this  posterior  looks  like? I  may  not  be  so  easy. But  people  come  up  with a  case  where  it  becomes  very  easy  to find  what  is  this  posterior  distribution so  that  we  can  come  up  with analytical  closed  form  solution. So  this  This  basically makes  the  mathematics  easier. In  this  special  case, In  this  special  case  is when  we  have  this  thing called  conjugate  prior. So  what  does  conjugate  prior  means? It  means  that  if  I  happen  to  choose the  prior  distribution  in  a  clever  way, I  choose  it  in  a  very  clever  way. So  that  somehow  this  guy  multiplied by  this  guy,  the  posterior  distribution, have  the  same  form,  belongs  to the  same  distribution  family as  the  prior  distribution. So  I  happen  to  choose  the  prior  in such  a  way  that  it  somehow fits  the  livelihood  in  a  very  nice  way. So  that  out  I  multiply  these  two  together, this  guy  is  actually belongs  to  the  same  family  as  a  prior. For  example,  if  I  take a  exponential  distribution  here, I  multiply  the  livelihood, and  I  can  show  that  this  posior is  also  an  exponential  distribution, then  we  say  that the  p  data  is a  contigt  pier  for  this  particular  lio. So  as  you  can  imagine, this  will  not  happen  very  often,  right? This  is  a  very,  very  special  case,  right? I  happen  to  be  able  to choose  one  distribution, right,  for  example, the  exponential  distribution. When  I  multiply  with this  particular  likelihood, my  posterior  is also  an  exponential  distribution. But  of  course, the  parameter  can  be  different. The  parameter  of  the  exponential distribution  can  be  different. And  then  but  then if  you  happen  to  encounter  this  kind  of  case, Then  it  becomes  very  easy  to  write  down the  analytical  close  form  solution. And  it's  also  easy  to  interpret,  right. You  can  think  of  the  posterior, right  is  basically  an  updated version  of  the  pyro,  right. So  your  pyro  is an  exponential  distribution with  certain  parameters. After  you  multiply  the  likelihood, it  becomes  another  exponential  distribution, but  with  different  parameters. Okay. So  you  can  interpret  this as  you  are  updating  the  pir into  another  exponential  distribution, but  the  parameters  are  updated. So  it's  easy  to  do  some  interpretation. But  of  course,  this  is  a  very  special  case. It's  not  flexible  enough to  capture  complex  data. And  that's  why  in  the  in  week  six, we'll  talk  about  MCMC  techniques  where  you don't  need  this  kind of  conjugate  prior  assumption. Okay.  But  do  at  some  example. When  can  we  have this  kind  of  conjugate  power. So  for  example,  you have  the  Bernui  distribution. So  here,  your  X  is  can only  take  on  values  01, and  the  probability  of x  equals  to  one  is  equals  to  data. Okay. As  we  saw,  you  can  actually  write the  PDF  in  this  very  compact  form. Data  to  power  one  minus  one  minus. Okay. So  here,  this  is  to  give  you  the  context. So  this  could  be  a  model that  you  use  to  indicate, right, whether  an  obstacle  is  being  detected  or  not. So  the  as  either  one  or  zero, right  is  zero  means  there's  no  obstacle, one  means  that's  obstacle,  right? So  you  a  detecting whether  there's  one  or  zero. Okay.  And  then  you you  can  only  right  because  it's  random  right, your  detection  is  imperfect. So  that's  w  there's a  probability  distribution  involved,  right. A  equals  one  on  certain  probability  data. A  congregate  prior  for this  particular  livelihood  is given  by  the  Beta  distribution. The  Beta  distribution  looks  like  this. So  this  is  the  normalizing  constant. You  don't  actually  really have  to  carp  out  is. Let's  think  of  it  as  a  constant. Although  it  looks  very  complicated, right, but  we  don't  really  have  to  carp  out  it. So  it's  the  functional  form that  is  the  one  that we're  interested  in,  right. So  the  prior  distribution  of  this  data, right  if  we  choose  it  to  be  of  this form  data  A  minus  one, one  minus  data,  b  minus  one. And  here  is  basically  giving  you  what  the  PDF of  the  prior  PDF  of the  data  books  for different  values  of  A  and  PF. So  if  I  hate  this, this  is  my  hood  and  if  I  apply  this  pyro, which  is  the  Beta  distribution  over  here, I  multiply  them  together, right  you  can  see  that the  Bado  distribution can  be  written  this  way. The  Beta  distribution  is  of  this  form,  right? So  you  can  see  that  now  these  two  forms, the  red  and  the  blue, right,  when  you  multiply  them  together, it  becomes  very  nice,  right? So  when  you  take the  beta  you  simplify  everything. You  can  see  that  this  data  to  power something  one  minus  data to  power  something,  right? So  we  can  see,  right  this  guy is  actually  of  the  same  form as  the  blue  one,  right? It's  the  same  family. Is  still  a  beta  distribution. And  the  parameter  of the  beta  distribution  is  given  by  this. Because  this  beta  distribution  is theta  A  minus  11  theta  b  minus  one. So  I  need  to  figure  out  what's  the  A  and  B. So  you  can  see  down  here  this  one. So  you  can  see  that  this  guy over  here,  this  is  the  A  right. This  is  the  new  A  x  plus a  minus  one,  this  is  a  new  A. And  then  you  need  to  have something  minus  one  right  for  the  B,  right. So  you  can  see  that  at the  top  here,  this  is  a  new  B. So  this  is  the  new  B  B  minus  one. So  that's  why  your  new  beta  distribution becomes  x  plus  A  and  one  minus  x  plus  B. So  Originally  my  P  data, right  the  pyor  distribution is  starts  from  A  and  B. And  now  after  seeing  the  X  value, the  observation  after I've  seen  one  observation, my  posterior  distribution  right  is  updated from  A  and  B becomes  x  plus  A  and  one  month  X  no  B. So  there's  some  so  you  can interpret  this  as  basically updating  your  original  belief  by your  original  belief  you believe  that  the  dpa, right  has  this  distribution. After  you  see  the  x  value, you  become  your  updated  belief now  becomes  ten  d  distribution. So  so  you  can  interpret the  posture  distribution  in  a  very  nice  way. Okay.  So  that's  the  advantage. So  I  I  happen  to choose  a  py  distribution  that  fits the  likelihood  very  nicely  so  that the  posterior  is  also of  the  same  family  as  the  pile  distribution, then  we  call  this  a  conjugate  py, and  Contribute  pile  now allows  you  to  write  down  the  posterior  in a  very  nice  way  and  to be  able  to  interpret  it  also. But  of  course,  I  have  to emphasize  that  this  only  happens in  this  kind  of  very  special  cases. Similarly,  now  if  we  go  to, I  only  talked  about  one single,  one  single  observation. But  of  course,  in  your  training  set, you  actually  observe  many  bservation s.  You  have  any  training  samples  over  here, IID  or  Bernui  with  some  unknown  data. This  data  is  the  one  that you  are  trying  to  figure  out  what's  the  data. So  we  can  do  the  same  thing  as  before. You  have  the  posterior. The  posterior  according  to  the  base  rule, you  may  write  it  as  what's that  the  likely  hood multiplied  by  the  pirate. And  then  the  likely  hood  because  it's IID  is  now  just  a  product of  the  individual  PDF. Okay. And  then  I  can  plug  in the  formula  for  the  individual  PDF. This  is  the  formula  for  the  individual  PDF. Okay.  And  then  I  simplify  everything,  right, you  can  see  that  now  the  top  those  are  this. So  this  is  your  new  A,  right? So  A  minus  one, and  this  is  your  new  PF. So  we  have  a  B  minus  one  on  top. Okay.  So  that's  why  your  beta,  right, beta  beta  discription,  the  new  A  stats, and  the  new  B  dist.  Yeah. So  you  can  see  that  using the  conjugate  pyro  makes the  calculation  very  easy. Then  you  are  able  to  write  down the  exact  form  of  the  sorry. You  are  able  to  write  down  the  exact  form of  the  posteror  distribution. Okay.  One  thing  to  point  out, you  can  also  we will  also  work  with  the  log  likelihood. Next  week,  we'll  make use  of  the  log  likelihood. Yeah,  just  to  show  you  what the  lohood  looks  like. So  log  Lho  taking  the  lot. Apply  the  lot  to  the  likelihood  function. So  this  is  your  likelihood  function  is IID  a  product  of  the  individual  PDS. So  after  you  take  the  lot, then  this  becomes  a  sub,  Subion  of  lots. And  then  yeah.  I  just  put  in  everything. Example  here.  So  that's how  we  talk  about  d  or  binary  radio  bs. Of  course,  you  can  generalize  this to  the  case  where  it's  more  than  binary. So  in  this  case,  you  have  k  categories. Just  now  just  now,  the  bed, the  bed  is  k  equals two  you  have  only  two  categories, either  one,  but  in  general, you  can  have  more  than  two,  right? You  can  have  K  or  thing.  Okay. So  the  categorical  distribution is  just  a  generalization  of the  bed  to  more  than  two  categories. So  you  can  see  that  there are  k  parameters  here. These  are  basically  the  probabilities that  your  x  belongs  to  category  one. So  basically,  Yeah. Basically,  the  probability  that X  is  belongs  to  category  one, is  equals  to  Data  one, the  probability  that  X is  category  two  is  Data  two  and  so. Of  course,  all  these  data must  sum  up  to  be  equals  to  one, and  it  has  to  be  all  of  them  has  to  be  no negative  because  they  are probabilities  and  they  have to  sum  up  equals  to  one. Similarly,  for  the  categorical  variable. If  I  give  you  a  training  data set  with  multiple, multiple  training  examples  in  side, X  one  to  X  n. Be  the  IID,  again, again,  write  it  as  a  product. And  here,  the  categorical  PDF, you  can  write  it  as  using the  indicator  function  in a  compact  way,  right. So  this  dS  equals  to  the  cave  category, this  is  exactly  the  data  K  is the  property  of  a  si  being in  the  cave  category. So  after  you  simplify, you  can  at  K  to  sa  sum  of  the  indicators. So  these  are  the  generalization  of the  b  which  in  the  applications, it  would  be  using the  categorical  distribution  most of  the  time  because  We usually  have  most  we  usually  use the  more  than  binary  categories. But  the  rest  I'm  not  going  to  go  through. The  rest  are  supplementary. Similar  to  the  Bernui  situation, where  the  BPA  distribution is  the  conjugate  pier. Here,  we  have  the  D  distribution  as the  contrib  pi  to the  s  to  the  categorical  distribution. So,  these  are  supplementary in  case  you  are  interested. Okay.  Let's  try  some  res. Yeah. Okay.  I  will  try  the  questions. Somehow  Yeah,  I  tried  the  questions. Somehow  I  got  disconnected. H. Okay.  Also  answer  the  question  in  the. So  in  poster  is fixed  and  in  likelihood  is  fixed. U  you  to  think  of these  all  as  functions  of  both  adds  and  data. So  it's  possible  to,  you  know, to  change  the  value  of  adds  and  data, right  in  either  one  of  them. So  by  what  we  mean  by  fix  is  that it's  conditional  on  adds  or conditional  on  on  data. So  in  that  sense, if  you  think  of  if  you understand  fix  as  being  conditional  on, yeah,  then  that's  correct,  right. So  in  the  procedure, you  are  conditioning  on  what  the  value  of as  is  and  in  the  in  the  likelihood  function, you  are  actually  conditioning on  what  is  the  data  value. And  then  there's  a  question in  the  UC  asking  about  y, if  you  atten  as  long  as you  attempt  one  question, your  attendance your  participation  should  be  clouded. Yeah. So  y,  so  please  do  that because  I  cannot  be  absolute  und  percent  sue. I  need  to  after  today,  right,  we  will  check. So  there's  a  synchronization between  the  UCLA  and  the  NTM  system. I  hope  it  will  capture  this  properly. Okay. So  I  think  most  of  you  have answered  which  distriion  is contribute  prior  right  to  the. So  it  has  to  be  the  Beta  distriion. Um  Yeah. When  we  say  the  prior  distion, if  you  use  a  bit  distribution, then  your  bit  distribution for  as  a  as  a  prior,  right? Pity  distribution, you  will  do  something  like  this, it  will  be  like  for  example, I  A  will  be  the  parameter  of the  bury  distribution,  then  this  will  be. It  will  be  one  minus  A  one  minus  data. So  this  cannot  so  when you  try  to  multiply  this  with  thehod, your  livelihood  is  data one  minus  data  one  minus  a  side. So  you  can  see  that  when  you  multiply  them, it's  not  going  to  work  out  nicely,  right? So  the  first  one  cannot  be  correct. The  binomial  is  also  similar. I  didn't  go  through this  binomial  distribution, but  it  s  n  choose  n  choose  data,  right? What's  that  some  P  P  one  minus  P  minus  data. So  again,  you  will  be  trying  to multiply  together  with  the it's  not  going  to  work  out. And  of  course,  we  do  at  the  Bata. The  exponent  would  do  something  like  Lamda, E  minus,  Lamda,  data.  Okay. So  it  will  not  be  a  conjugate  as  well. Okay.  So  let's  say. Let's H. Okay.  I  think  most  of  you  have  tried.  Okay. So  here  you  are  given  five, you  have  five  detections. So  this  is  each  of  them one  detection  is,  right. So  basically  you  have  five  and  then  theta is  the  parameter  of  the  Burdon. Sodhd  function  is  O.  Okay. You  hood  function  is  is  given  by  the. This  is  your  P  given  data. So  now  you  have  your  PD, right,  your  function  for  the  whole  data  set. You  have  five  What set,  you  have  five  detection. So  here  you  you basically  have  data  to  power  five,  right? You  have  five  detection,  and  then  the  rest is  no  detection,  right. So  you  have  one  minus  data  power  three. Okay.  So  then  you  multiply  with  the  py. So  the  posterior,  the posterior  is  proportional  to the  light  who  multiply  with  the  py. So  in  this  case is  You  prior  is  theta  is  five  minus  one, one  minus  b  minus  one  minus  one. You  by  them  is  n  minus  one. One  minus  theta.  We  have  four  minus  one. This  is  your  new  A.  Your  new  A is  ten  and  your  new  b  is  four, The  second  answer  is  the  correct  one. Any  questions? Okay.  Okay.  Next  one. I  think  I  done  here. Okay.  So  let's  continue. Okay. So  the  next  distribution, this  is  actually  probably  one  of the  most  important  ones, especially  for  engineering. In  most  of  the  in  a  lot  of  applications, we  use  the  gaucin  distribution to  model  the  data. Now  your  gui  distribution, the  PDF  or  the  gazing  distribution this  is  basic  decaying  exponentially in  a  quadratic  ways  of all  the  e  power  minus s  there's  a  quadratic  form  at  the  top. Okay. So  yeah, I  guess  most  of you  would  be  familiar  with  this, it  basically  has  this  kind of  bell  shaped  curve. And  the  mele  here  is  the  mean. So  this  is  the  point  where your  bell  shape  is  symmetric  at. So  for  different  mean,  have  your, your  PDF  will  be symmetric  at  different  means. And  then  the  Cigma  square,  right. Cigma  square  here  is  the  variance  basically tells  you  how  wide  the  main  lop  is.  No. So  in  the  case  where  the  mean  is zero  and  the  variance  is  equals  to  one, this  is  called the  standard  normal  distrition. This  one  in  general  is  called the  gaussian  or  normal  diction. We  add  the  word  standard  to  indicate  that zero  is  mean  zero and  variance  equals  what  we  call  it  standard. Okay. So  typically,  for  example, in  one  application  is  in  the  A  V,  right, you  are  having  some  radar  measurement. So  your  radar  will  tell  you how  far  away  the  obstacle  is,  right. So  this  distance,  the  distance of  the  obstacle  from  your  sensor is  a  real  value, right?  Is  a  real  value. It's  not  like  a  integer, it  can  be  like  2.5, 2.1,  three  point  something,  right. So  this  is  a  real  value. So  that's  why  it  make sense  to  use  the  Gausia  distribution. Instead  of  for  example,  bedodi distribution  or  just  now,  we  top  about  beta, not  beta  Berni  distribution or  categorical  distribution, those  are  for  discrete  random  variables where  your  measurement  can only  take  discrete  values. This  one  can  take  any  real  value. So  that's  why  it  makes  sense  to use  a  gaucim  distribution.  No. Yeah.  So  you  can  see  that the  gaucu  distribution  will  appear  in  a  lot of  applications  where  when you  are  dealing  with  real  values, then  yeah,  we  like to  use  the  gauc  distribution. Also  because  there  are  some  theory  behind  it. So  the  gauc  distribution  turns  out  to be  the  distribution  if you  take  a  lot  of  random  effects, you  add  them  together,  right? At  the  end,  after  you add  up  all  the  random  effects, you  will  do  approximately like  a  gcium  distribution. You  will  have  this  kind  of  galcia  curve. In  a  lot  of  applications, we  usually  model  like  all there  are  many  random effects  in  the  environment,  right? If  all  of  them  add  up  together at  your  receiver  at  your  observation  site, then  you  expect  that  you  are going  to  have  somesg  gusan  distribution. And  this  is  actually  proven  theoretically, which  is  actually  one  of the  nicest  results  in probability  theory  in  mathematics. You  We  can  actually  show that  if  you  are  add  up sufficient  number  of  all  these  random  themes, you  will  definitely  become  same  distribution. That's  why  this  is called  a  normal  distribution. Where  this  word  normal  comes  from. Normal  just  means  typical. Normal  means  typical. As  opposed  to  abnormal, normal  versus  abnormal  the  typical  dision. So  why  is  it  called  the  typical  distriion? Is  because  once  you  add  up enough  enough  number  of all  these  random  distributions, you  will  definitely  get  this  gausm  discion. So  that's  why  it's called  normal  distribution, and  that's  why  it's  used  extensively in  a  lot  of  engineering  applications. That's  why  it's  important  for  us  to understand  how  to  use  this  distribution? What  are  the  properties of  this  normal  distriion? Some  important  properties. If  I  multiply,  if x  itself  is  a  normal  distribution, with  me  variant  Sigma  square, I  multiply  some  constant  A, I  will  scale  the  me, I  will  also  scale  the  var  by  squa. If  I  add  a  constant  to  ads, I  will  shift  the  mean, but  of  course,  the  variance  doesn't  change. If  I  do  add a  standard  normal  standard  normal, I  can  always  write any  other  normal  random  variable in  terms  of  the  standard normal  because  of  these  two  properties. I  just  scale  it  by Sigma  and  then  shift  it  by  me. You  will  get  that  the normal  distribution  meal  and  variance. So  basically  comes  from  here. Okay.  Very  importantly,  if  I  have two  normal  distributions that  are  independent. If  I  add  that  up,  they  will  still  be  normal. They  are  also  still  normal  exp  is  normal the  mean  is  the  sum  and the  variance  is  also  the  sum. This  is  not  true  for  other kinds  of  distribution,  right. If  you  add  two  exponential  distribution, you're  not  going  to  get  back an  exponential  distribution,  right. Okay. So  this  distribution, this  is  a  very  nice  property. And  yeah. So  for  machine  learning, most  of  the  time  we  are  dealing  with  vectors, with  a  high  dimensional  vectors. So  we  have  this  concept  of a  multi  fared  galciin,  right? This  where  the  whole  vector  is galcan  we  also  call  this  joint  D  galcan. Okay. So  the  definition  of  g  and joint  D  gali  is  actually  given  by  this, if  I  take  a linear  function  of  the  random  vector, I  just  take  some  constant  vector  A, A  transpose  of  a  side. That  means,  it  just  a  linear  combination of  the  components  inside  ads. I  take  any  A,  then this  particular  linear  combination of  X  must  still  be  a,  right? So  this  guy  so  this  is  a  definition. So  A  transpose  a  ds  this  sum,  right? This  is  a  single  dimension. This  is  a  this  is  a  scalar  value. So  this  is  becomes  a  random  variable. So  if  this  guy  is  Galin, right,  we  already  know  what Gal  what  is  the  menial  gal. Gal  means  that  this  is  skater  right  this  is for  for  a  single  dimensional, the  PDF  of  this scaled  random  variable  is  given  by  this. So  this  is  called  galcan if  I  do  a  linear  combination  of  x, I  get  back  a  scaler  and this  sc  random  variable happens  to  be  gaussian, then  I  can  say  that  this  random  vector, right  is  jointly  gain  or  multi  varied  gal. And  this  has  to  be  true  for any  linear  combination,  right.  Okay. So  I  take  any  linear  combination, it  will  still  remain  to  be  gaucian, then  I  can  say  that  it's  jointly  gal,  right. So  for  example,  if  I  take  say  one, zero,  zero,  everything  else  is  zero, multiply  by  the  p. This  was  just  give  me  X  one,  right. So  X  one  has  to  be  gal,  right? So  X  two  also  has  to  be gal  right  so  basically, every  component  has  to  be gal,  but  that's  not  enough. So  according  to  this  definition, this  is  not  enough. I  also  need  X  one  plus  X  two  to  be  gal. I  also  need  x  one plus  two  x  two  to  be  gin,  right? So  this  definition  actually  says more  two  all  of  these, right  any  linear  combination  has  to  be gal  X  one  plus  four  x  two  plus  three. Everything  right all  these  linear  combination  has  to  be  gal. So  if  that's  the  case, then  we  can  say  that  it's  Joy  Calc. Okay.  Okay.  So  it sounds  like  a  very  that a  very  complicated  definition,  right? A  very  stringent  definition. But  it's  not  so. The  definition  sent,  but  actually  is  not. As  long  as  if  I  look  at the  IID  standard  normal  galcan the  z  consists  of  ID  galcan. I  take  the  matrix  A  times  z  plus  me.  No. This  will  actually  make  everything  o  gai. The  right  X  equals  to  A  Z  plus  me, then  my  X  will  be  a  joint  gai. Okay. Note  that  the  Z,  right, taking  the  D  Z, all  d  Zs  together, they  are  job  dicalc  This  all  you  can you  try  to  convince  yourself,  right? This  is  true.  Okay?  Because  of the  two  properties  that  we  talked  about. Because  of  this  property. Use  of  these  properties, you  can  so  that  if  they  are  IID, then  of  course  they  are  o  D  gaus if  I  take  A  Z  plus  me, this  will  always  be  gausum. M,  you  can  work  out  the  mean  and  the  co  vars. The  mean  of  this  A  Z  plus  me, and  the  co  vari  will  be  A  times  A  transpose. Yeah.  And  people  have also  actually  come  out  with a  explicit  close  form  for the  PDF  of  the  Jo  Gui  so  we  do  this, do  something  complicated.  Yeah. So  most  of  the  time  we  won't  be  using  this directly,  but  maybe  okay. In  some  cases,  you  do  have  to  make use  of  the  PDF  because  later on  we  will  have  to  use  the  PDF, right  to  maximize  the  PDF, so  you  do  have  to  make  use  of  this. Okay.  But  other  than  that, most  of  the  time  won't  be  using  this  PDF. Um  Yeah. And  this  is  just  an  example  of  the  Da,  right. So  for  example,  if  you collect  the  DDA  point  cloud, we  do  s  this,  you  can  see  that  obviously, you  cannot  be  using  one  here  first  of  all, your  Da  point  cloud  is  in the  three  D,  three  D  space. So  definitely  you  need  a Gaussian  distribution with  three  dimensions, to  model  one  point  cloud, and  moreover,  you  can  see  here  in  this  data, the  actual  two  point  cloud  side. Yeah.  You  can  imagine  there are  actually  two  objects  here. So  you  actually  need more  than  three  dimensions. In  this  case,  you  need  six  dimensions  model the  two  point  clouds. Okay.  Some  simple  example for  the  two  dimensional  case. So  two  dimension,  right,  meaning  you have  two  components  inside  your  factor. So  in  the  two  dimensional  case, You  mean  of  this  vector, is  just  the  individual  me  X  and  me  y, the  expectation  of  X and  the  expectation  of  y. And  the  core  variance  matrix, you  can  see  that  this  is the  variance  of  X,  variance  of  y, and  then  you  have  the  variance  of  X  and Y  on  the  of  diagonal  terms. We  can  define  this  the  co  relation, which  just  take  the  co  variance divided  by  the  standard  divisions. So  basically,  the  PDF will  do  different  for different  values  of  the core  relation  coefficient. Let  me  show  you  some  examples. In  the  simpler  case,  when they  are  uncre  related, the  covariance  equals  to  zero, you  can  see  that the  PDF  actually  does  like  this, that  is  a  very  symetric is  a  very  symmetric  d  of  PDF. In  the  case,  this is  when  the  varians  are  also  the  same. Now  if  I  it's  uncorrelated, but  I  increase  the  variance  in  one  direction, and  see  that  now  it  becomes elongated,  this  elongated  PDF. Now  I  increase  the  core  relation. Once  I  increase  the  core  relation, you  are  going  to  tilt the  PDF  function  according to  how  much  core  relation  you  have. And  finally, I  I  increase  it  to  almost  two  equals  to  one, the  core  relation  point  in  fic. So  we  can  see  that  it becomes  almost  like a  straight  line  like  that. Okay.  Okay.  So  some  quick  questions  here. Okay?  So  this  on  you  can choose  more  than  one  answer. All  right. Yeah. So  I  think  this  is  quite  straightforward. So  as  we  saw  just  now,  right, linear  combinations  of  independent  galcans will  still  be  galing,  right? So  definitely  two  and  four, two  and  four  will  be  the  correct  answer. If  I  multiply  two  g  together, unfortunately,  this  will  not  be  go. Similarly  for  three,  if  I take  the  lot  and  then  add  them  together, this  will  not  be  ging  anymore. Okay. And's H. Okay. Okay.  So  for  this  question, can  see  that  given  some  constant. That  means  your  P  P  S  is  proportional to  E  p  minus  two  x  square  plus  three  x. If  you  do  this  guy  over  here, you  can  always  do the  completion  of  square  right. You  can  always  write  it  as  1/2  Sigma  square  x minus  M  square  right  you  have to  determine  what's  the  value of  meal  and  Sigma  squared. Once  you  get  to  this  form, you  will  know  that  this  has  to  be the  Gaussian  distribution  with mean  Mo  and  Sigma  square. Okay.  So  there  cannot  be any  other  distribution  as we  saw  before,  right. I  my  PDF  is  proportional  to some  functional  form  and this  functional  form  corresponds to  the  gaussian  distribution, it  has  to  be  the  Gaussian  distribution. There  cannot  be  another  distribution that  have  this  form,  right?  Okay. So  as  long  as  it's a  quadratic  function  at  the  top, then  it  has  to  be  a  gaussian  distribution. Okay.  So  the  answer  is  true,  right. Okay.  I  think  this  should  be  the  last  motion. A. Okay,  good. Okay,  which  of  the  this  distribution is  contrib prior  to  this  gaussian  distribution. So  basically,  I  want  the  posterior. So  for  it  to  be  a  contributed  prior, I  need  the  posterior  the  post  distribution, which  is  in  this  case, the  is  the  parameter  here. So  the  posterior  distribution, it  has  to  be  of the  same  family,  same  same  family. As  a  prior  distribution  p  mi. Okay.  So  if  you  do  at  the  exponential. The  pri  the  prior  is  exponential, right  is  this  p  me  right  would  be  would  be proportional  to  E  minus  Lambda  mi, right  off  this  one. And  then  you  want  to multiply  with  the  gasian. So  the  likelihood  is  the  gasian. Multiply  with  the  viral,  right. So  we  can  see  that  the  gal  sing  itself, right  is  already  E  -1/2, right  x  minus  mile square  and  then  multiply by  E  minus  Lambda  me,  right. So  you  see  this  is  already a  quadratic  form  in  me,  right? The  me  there's  a  mile  square  inside. So  when  you  multiply  this  thing  overall, cannot  be  a  exponential  anymore, right  cannot  be  exponential  anymore  because your  exponential  can  only have  a  linear  form,  right? Okay.  So  the  first  one  cannot  be. Similarly,  I  think  I guess  the  same  reasoning applies  to  uniform,  right? Because  you  still  you  have  to  quadate  it. Form  in  the  exponential. I  can  multiply  with  a  uniform, is  just  a  constant  right. Of  course,  the  last  one  then  be  the  answer, right  because  now  the  last  one, you  have  e  minus  half  that's  minus  me  square, multiply  e  minus,  say 1/2  sigma  square  me  minus  its  mean,  right? Let's  say  the  mean  that's  call  it  m  squared. So  when  the  two  add up  is  still  a  contracted  in  terms  of  me. So  that's  why  will  be  a  gaussian. So  this  will  be  a  gcian. So  it's  trig. Okay.  So  I  think  that's all  for  this  question. All  right.  So  just  to  wrap  up. So  for  today,  what  have  we  done,  right? We  have  gone  through some  basic  property  theory, top  about  the  PDF, all  these  basic  properties. So  if  you  are  you  have  forgotten,  you  know, your  undergraduate  engineering  mathematics, please  do  go  and  review, review  all  these  things. I  guess  something  slightly new  is  the  conjugate  distributions. So  this  one  will  be  um, will  be  useful  in  finding formulas  for  the  posterior  distribution, but  we  will  later  on  learn  about more  advanced  techniques  that doesn't  need  to  assume this  kind  of  contri  distributions.  Okay. And  then  we  talk  about  some standard  PDF  and  yeah, very  importantly,  the  Gaussian  distribution. Okay.  I  want  to  give  of  you a  high  level  picture  of  what is  what  to  expect  right  in  the  weeks  ahead. Sorry.  Okay. So  basically,  right,  in  machine  learning. What  we  are  going  to  do  is  that  the typical  top  flow  the  typical  flow for  coming  up  with  a  machine  learning  model. So  is  basically  follow  this  kind  of  Pline. So  first  of  all,  right,  you  need  to choose  what  kind  of model  you  want  to  make  use  of. So  there  are  many  different models  you  can  use,  right. In  the  simplest  applications, you  will  be  using  this  kind  of probablistic  models  with  parameters, parametric  probabity  models,  which  we are  going  to  top  about mostly  in  the  first  half  of  this  course. And  these  models  are actually  still  being  widely  used  in  industry. It  doesn't  mean  that  now  all  the  industry are  using  deep  determining  models,  right? In  fact,  um  a  lot  of industries  are  still depending  on  your  application, right,  they  are  still  using this  kind  of  probablistic  models. We  are  which  has  the advantage  of  being  easy  to train  and  they are  being  interpretable,  right. So  that's  why  it's  not always  necessary  to  use  deep  turning  models, which  actually  needs  a  lot  of  data  to  train. And  of  course,  in the  second  half  of  the  course, we  will  be  looking at  more  of  the  dep  turning  models,  right. So  I  call  this  the  loss  models because  they  are  not  based  on  probability, but  they  are  using  a  loss  function. Right.  So  you  can  then  yeah, depending  on  the  application, we  may  also  want  to  may decide  to  choose  this  kind of  lost  based  models. Okay.  Once  you  have  chosen the  model  that  you  want  to  use, and  of  course,  the  model comes  with  some  parameters,  right? So  parameter  weights, regardless  of  whether  you  are using  probablistic  models or  lost  based  models. All  of  them  has  parameter  weights that  you  need  to  find. What  is  the  optimal  value of  this  parameter  weight? So  examples  are  given  here, the  data  value  in the  Berdi  next  we we  will  talk  more  about  this, and  then  which  we  will  cover this  f  which  models. Which  f  we'll  talk  about the  Markov  models,  Hidden  Markov  models. And  then  of  course,  in  the  second  half, we'll  top  about  the  deep  neural  network  side, and  the  parameters  are  called the  basically  the  network  the  weights inside  the  network.  Okay. So  then  we  really  want  to find  what  is  the  optimal  model  parameter, right? How  do  we  define?  What  is  the  optimal,  right? What  is  considered  optimal. So  next,  we'll  look  at  some  criteria. This  maximum  likelihood  estimator, maximum  a  posterior  estimator. Week  three  will  top  about  a  EM  algorithm, which  is  a  way  to  find  to basically  learn  the maximum  likelihood  estimator. Week  four  is  talking about  the  bone  watch  algorithm, which  is  used  in  the  HM  M  Kid  MP  model, which  is  actually  this  bond  watch  algorithm is  actually  a  version  of  the  EM  algorithm. And  then  we  five  and  S  side will  top  about  MCMC  techniques. So  Then  the  second  half  of  the  cost to  find  the  optimal  ameter  is usually  just  based  on  a  loss  or  s. That's  why  I  call  this  is called  the  loss  based  model. In  this  case,  because  the  loss, if  it  has  no  specific  meaning, then  in  general,  people  would  just  use a  stotic  grading  design  approach. Is  a  optimization  approach, to  minimize  the  loss. You  can  see  that  in  a  lot  of  cases, actually  the  so  called loss  being  used  here  are actually  the  so  in  many  application. So  you  can  this  MLE  is actually  also  used  here to  define  what  the  loss  is. Of  course,  after  you  have  trained  the  model, all  of  these  thing  is  to  basically  use the  training  data  to train  the  model  to  find  the  data  star, the  optimal  model  parameters. After  you  have  filed  the  model  parameters, you  want  to  use  it. You  use  it  in  the  so  called  influence  time. That  means  now  I  give  you new  observations,  new  apps. I  want  you  to  make  use  of this  training  model  to  tell me  something  about  the  outcome. So  then  then  we will  talk  about  so  calles  offices, the  test  accuracy,  precision  recall, and  all  these  other  things. Now  to  measure  the  performance of  the  model  in  influence  time. Okay. This  is  the  overview  of  what this  whole  thing  this  whole  course is  going  to  talk  about. Yeah. And  last  but  not  least there  are  some  practice  problems  here. The  I  think  in the  slide  that  I  posted  on in  the  anti  it  has  the  solution. This  one  I  didn't  solve  the  solution. But  anyway,  yeah,  you  should  be  able  to find  the  one  I posted  on  the  antim  have  the  solution, but  please  try  the  problems. We  have  to  get  the  solution first  or  asking  the  AI, and  then  that's  the  best  way you  can  learn  you  know  the  material. Okay.  So  any  que,  any  last  questions? So  next,  we  will  be  back  in the  LT  face  to  face  in  person. Yeah,  I  will  post so  if  you  are  okay  with  my  handwriting, I'll  post  these  annotated  slides online  as  well  in  the  NT. You  don't  have  to  answer  every question  on  the  clap,  right. As  long  as  you  attempt  the  question, I  think  the  system  will  be  able  to record  that  you  have  a  attempted. Yeah,  as  long  as  it's  not  anw, right  basically  the  system, if  you  don't  log  in and  you  don't  do  anything, you  will  basically  record  as  absent. As  long  as  you  attempt, then  you  will  get  the. So,  I  mean, I  want  to  encourage  you  to  just  attempt, right  because  this  one  is  you don't  get  penalized  or getting  wrong  answer,  right. So  since  you're  attending  the  lecture, you  might  as  well  just  try  the  question. Old  assignments. There  are  certainly  the  past  year exam  questions  that  we  can  try. And  then  there  are  actually  a  lot  of problems  in  the  textbooks that  I  mentioned,  right? So  the  textbook  actually is  a  good  source  of  practice  problems. All  right.  Okay. So  if  no  other  questions  we  end  here  today, and  I  look  forward  to  seeing  all  of  you  next. Thank  you,  everyone.
