Yeah.  Okay.  Good  evening,  everybody. Good  to  see  everyone  here  today. Yeah.  This  is  our  first  in  class  lecture. Last  week  was  the  public  holiday, so  we  had  the  online  makeup. I  hope  those  who  didn't attend  the  online  session, you  can  always  view  the  video. Okay  reminder. Okay.  So  the  video  is  at the  media  gallery  inside  your  NT  lens. When  you  click  on  it,  you should  be  able  to  see  the  video. And  the  lectures  are  all  recorded,  right. So  Usually,  the  videos  will  be available  within  one  to  2  hours after  the  lecture  itself. Yeah.  Another  reminder  is  the  U  clap. So  remember,  you  have  5%  class  participation. If  you  attend  this  Clap, right  you  just  have  to  attempt  the  questions, don't  need  to  you  will  get  the  marks  even  if you  get  the  answer  wrong,  so  it's  fine. So  don't  be  afraid to  just  try  out  the  questions. And  those  of  you who  did  the  Clap  during  the  online  session, last  week,  you  should  be able  to  see  your  score. Yeah,  as  long  as  you  see a  basically  a  non  store, if  you  see  something  right  inside your  NTN  instead  of  I  think  a  dash, that  means  that  your participation  has  been  recorded, right  regardless  of  what  the  score  is, even  if  you  get  a  zero,  is  also  counted. So  unless  you  see a  dash,  right,  there's  nothing. That  means  that  it's  not  captured. So  if  you  find  that  you  see  a  dash, but  you  have  attempted, then  please  let  me  know. We  will  try  to  figure  out  what  happened. Okay.  Yeah,  exactly how  the  score  is  computed, actually,  I  also  don't  know. The  system  the  clap  the  convert  the  score somehow  inside  the  O  clap  into the  NT.  So  there's  a  mapping. If  you  ask  me  why  you  get  50  instead  of 55  out  100,  I  also  don't  sn. But  it  doesn't  matter. As  long  as  you  get  some  score, then  it's  counted  as  one  class  participation. So  Basically,  you  will get  the  full  class participation  marks  if  you  do  nine. If  you  attempt  nine  of  the  class out  of  their  13  weeks. There's  a  buffer  there. Don't  have  to  worry.  Yeah.  Today,  please go  to  the  We  two  and then  you  need  to  enter  through  the  N. Very  importantly,  have to  go  through  the  NQ  Ln. Otherwise,  the  system  cannot  capture your  attempt  because  it needs  to  know  your  account. Okay.  So  if  you  go  through  the  NQ  learn, then  you  should  be  able to  see  this  interface. And  then  yeah. Okay,  so  far  okay? Okay.  Great.  Okay.  Then  we can  start  on  two  days. Lecture.  Let  me  see. Okay.  So  before  we  start, that's  a  quick  recap  of  last  week. So  basically,  last  week  was mainly  about  probability  review. So  you  so  basically  just  a  quick  review of  concepts  of  PDF,  right, expectations, different  standard  distributions, like  the  bernodi,  exponential, normal,  uniform  and  so. So  these  are  standard  distributions that  we  will  use as  examples  throughout  the  rest  of  the  cost. So  these  distributions  themselves may  or  may  not  be  useful in  different  application. There  are  some  applications  where it's  actually  quite  okay to  use  some  of  these  distributions  to model  to  model  whatever  you  want  to  model, right  For  example,  packet  arrivals  in a  network  is  actually very  well  modeled  by  pzon  distribution. Your  call  arrival  rate  in your  communication  system  is also  well  modeled  by  Po  jong, your  noise  that  you  observe, when  you  do  measurements in  any  system  or  for  example, your  communication  system  again, is  well  modeled  by  Gaussian  distributions. And  there  are  reasons  behind  that. And  then  it  doesn't  mean that  all  these  simple distributions  has  no  use. They  still  have  a  place in  very  important  applications. But  we  will  mainly  use  them to  illustrate  the  concepts. And  of  course,  At the  end  of  this  course,  all  these  concepts, I  hope  you  will  be  able  to apply  it  to  much  more  complicated  dision, much  more  complicated  models, which  basically  don't  even have  a  name  for  the  distribution. The  model  itself,  you can  think  of  it  as  a  distribution, but  it's  a  very  complicated  model  that  you have  to  train  the  model  accordingly. In  general,  first  of  all, we  need  to  for whatever  application  that  you're doing  your  machine  learning  for, first  of  all,  have  to  decide  on what  kind  of  model  architecture you're  going  to  use. In  the  probablistic  case, where  let's  say  you  believe  that  using some  distribution  is  good enough  to  model  your  application, then  of  course,  here  you  have  to decide  what  kind  of distributions  are  you  going  to  use? What  kind  of  probability  distributions you're  going  to  use  to  build  out  your  model. These  dstion  that  we saw  last  is  the  very  basic  one. Subsequently,  we  are  going  to see  how  to  combine  them  together. For  example,  in  this  mixture  model, how  to  combine  them  together  to  come up  with  something  that  is  more  sophisticated, more  complex,  that  can model  your  application  better. Then  we  also  have  all  these  markov  models, SD  mako  models. These  are  again  combinations of  of  different  concepts and  combinations  of different  distributions  together in  a  more  complex  model. Of  course,  when  you  go  to  the second  half  of  the  course, then  we  won't  be  too concerned  on  whether  we're using  distributions  or  not, but  we  are  rather  going  to  look  at the  lost  based  models using  this  kind  of neural  network  architectures. But  at  the  end  of  the  day, you  can  actually  think  of the  neural  network  architecture as  a  complicated  distribution. When  you  look  at  it,  you your  neural  network  architecture, in  most  cases,  for  example, you  are  doing  classification, the  logic  layer  of your  neural  network  is  actually giving  you  a  distribution. So  it's  only  when  you  got  the  distribution, you  map  it  into  a  single  output. So  Mathematically,  you  can  think  of the  whole  neural  network  as one  big  distribution  that you're  trying  to  deal  with. Okay.  But  of  course, this  has  no  the  names  that  are given  to  these  models  are  no  longer  based  on, you  know, this  kind  of  standard  distributions. Okay. Choosing  the  model  itself  is  also  kind of  There's  also  a  whole  procedure  behind  it, but  in  this  course, we  are  not  going  to  cover  that. Those  of  you  who  are  interested  in case  you  are  wondering, how  do  I  exactly  choose  a  model  architecture? Then  you  can  actually use  this  kind  of  validation  techniques  and try  to  find  the  optimal  architecture that  that  fits  your  application. This  will  then  depend  on having  enough  training  data for  you  to  do  this. We're  not  going  to  do  that  in  this  course. We  are  just  going  to assume  that  you  have  chosen your  model  architecture  and now  Once  you  have  a  model  architecture, there  are  all  the  weights  inside  the  model. In  this  course,  we  are  mainly  going to  focus  on  parametric  models. You  have  a  distribution or  a  neural  network  model, and  then  the  distribution or  the  model  itself, comes  with  unknown  weights that  that  you  can  optimize. These  are  called  the  model  weights or  the  model  parameters. You  can  think  of  it  as basically  a  conditional  distribution that's  given  by  this. We  are  already  actually interested  when  it  comes to  machine  learning  training. We  are  actually  basically  trying  to learn  what  are  these  model  parameters. But  ok.  In  terms of  the  simplest  example  that  you  can  have. For  example,  last  we  we talk  about  nudi  distribution. You  have  the  data  which is  telling  you  what's  the  probability that  that the  random  variable  is  equals  to  one. This  is  an  unknown  probability. Then  we  want  to  make  use  of your  training  data  observations to  try  to  learn, what  is  this  data  value for  this  particular  application. Then  for  the  gaussian  distribution,  remember, the  gaussian  is  characterized  by  the  mean me  and  the  coven  matrix  Sigma. Again,  this  would  be  something that  is  unknown  in  advance. You  know  that  the  data is  generated  by  Gaussian, but  you  don't  know  what  is  the  mean, what  is  the  coence  matrix, and  so  you  want  to  make  use  of some  training  data  to  try  to learn  what  is  the  mean  and  coence  metric of  this  gaussian. Then  in  subsequent  weeks  we  will  see more  and  more  complicated  models  with more  and  more  parameters that  you  need  to  learn. Of  course,  in  the  second  half  of  the  course, we  are  talking  about  some  of  the  models. Big  new  network  models  can  have  billions, billions  of  model  parameters. For  example,  I  think  the  most  recent  LLM  by Kim  is  one  that  basically has  over  1  trillion  parameters. These  are  all  basically the  model  weights  and  we'll  try  to use  training  data  to  try to  come  up  with  the  model  weights. Okay.  Then  the  question  is, how  to  come  up  with  the  models,  right? We  want  to  find  good  model  weights. What  are  so  called  consider  optimal, right  I  mean  person  A, he  may  think  that  this  data is  better  to  person  B, may  think  that  this  other  data  is  better. So  we  need  some  criteria to  help  us  to  guide  us, to  say  which  parameter is  considered  to  be  optimal. So  we  are  basically trying  to  answer  that  question. Today  we'll  do  at two  common  criteria  to say  that  this  is  what  we  want. I  will  also  give  you  some  reasons why  people  use  these  criteria. Hopefully,  I  can  convince  you  that these  are  good  criteria  to  use. It  makes  sense  to  use this  MLE  or  MAP  criteria. This  will  mainly  cover  these  two. Of  course,  after  you  have  learned  the  model, the  data  star  has  been  trained  from your  training  data, you  want  to  make  use  of  it. During  your  inference  time, you're  going  to  get  new  data that  you  have  never  seen  before, you  plug  into the  model  that  you  have  learned  and then  you  get  some  predicted  outcome. And  subsequently,  if  you manage  to  observe  the  ground  hf, then  you  can  measure  whether your  predicted  outcome  is  good  or  not. Whether  your  model  is  good  or  not. Can  you  generalize  during the  influence  time  to  something that  you  have  never  seen  before. This  we'll  also  talk  about all  the  goodness  of  fit,  test  accuracy, all  these  different  criteria, Trough  the  example.  RMS. These  are  basically typical  criteria  that  people use  to  test  your  model. So  using data  that  you  have  never  seen  before. That's  why  this  is called  testing  testing  data. You  use  data  to  train  your  model, that  is  called  the  training  data. After  you  have  trained  the  model, maybe  you  need  to  adjust certain  hyperparameters  inside  your  model, then  we  will  use  this  thing  called validation  data  to  tune  the  hyperparameter. Training.  So  you  have  training  data. Then  you  have  validation  data  that  is for  This  is  to  to train  or  to  find the  data  star  Validation  data is  mainly  to  hyperparameter. Hyperparameters  are  parameters  that do  not  belong  to  the  data  star. It's  not  something  that you  that  you  want  to  learn. Most  of  the  time,  these  are  things that  you  fit  in  advance. But  then  you  try  to  adjust  the  weight, all  these  hyperparameters using  your  valuation  data. Of  course,  finally, you  have  the  testing  data. Testing  data  should  be  totally  different right  from  the  training  and  validation  data. Here  we  are  trying  to  see  whether the  model  can  generalize. Whether  it's  generalized  or  not, how  will  tell  whether  it  generalized  or  not, then  we  basic  use of  all  these  kind  of  criteria. All  right.  So  we'll jump  straight  into  the  basic  models. Here  you  can  see  that Okay.  I  hope  you  can  see, I  want  to  make  it  full  screen, but  I  guess  it's  not  possible. Okay.  Let's  start  with  some  motivation. For  example,  you  can  see  here. Let's  say  you  are  given  a  training  data set  with  XI  and  YI  pas. Y  is  or  the  outcome that  you  are  trying  to  predict, from  the  the  ads  would  be the  favors  the  input  fur  or, then  In  the  testing, are  basically  only  given  X, you  don't  know  the  y,  want  to  predict  the  y. But  in  the  training,  this  is a  supervised  training  problem. You  are  given  X  and  Y  so  that  you can  learn  the  model  weights. Here  of  course,  we  already  assume  that  we've chosen  what  kind  of  model  we're  going  to  use. We  then  use  the  training  data to  try  to  learn  the  model  weights. So  One  example  here  is, for  example,  you  are  trying  to fit  this  quadratic  function. So  we  are  given  the  x  value, you  are  given  the  y  value. So  each  point  here, each  data  point  consists  of  x  and  y. Of  course,  your  data  is  generated in  a  probablistic  way. There's  noise  inside  the  data. We  should  think  of  the  X  and Y  coming  from  some  joint  distribution. It's  not  a  deterministic  relationship, but  in  terms  of  the  model, we  are  hoping  to  use  a  deterministic  model, a  quadratic  model  to try  to  model  the  y  in  terms  of  the  X. Here  we  assume  this is  the  model  that  we've  chosen. We  assume  that  y  equals  to some  a  zero  plus  a  one  x  plus  e2x  squared. This  are  a  quanttic  function. But  of  course,  the  A zero  e  one  and  e  two  are  unknown. We  have  chosen  a  quanttic  model, but  you  don't  know  exactly  what  are the  values  of  a  zero  e  one  and  e  two. So  question  that  we  want  to  answer, is  what  is  the  optimal  value  of  this  A  0e1e2? And  to  answer  this  question, usually  we  will  need  to  try  to  make use  of  the  property  distribution that  generates  this  data. So  will  give  some  examples. Here,  for  example,  you have  the  training  data  set. This  one  is  I  don't  put  the  y  here. So  this  is  an  illustration  to  show you  what  the  so called  the  Lhod  model  looks  like.  Okay. To  answer  this  question,  we  first  need to  come  up  with  a  likelihood  model  and  then we  can  try  to  do  something to  that  likelihood  model to  then  say  what is  the  best  values  of  A  08182. Before  we  do  that, do  some  examples  of so  called  likelihood  model,  right. So  in  the  simplest  example  is  like your  training  dataset  just consists  of  a  values. So  you  have  X  values. Now  you  believe  that all  these  X  values  are  generated  by  Sun  Bn. All  the  X  I  are  generated  by Sun  Berny  distribution with  some  unknown  data. Of  course,  we  always  assume that  the  data  set  is  IID. IID  means  independent  and identically  distributed.  Okay. We  assume  that  the  data  is  generated  from, for  example,  from  different  experiments. So  each  time  when  you  want to  you  got  the  X one  from  the  first  experiment, and  then  you  re  run  the  same  experiment, you  get  the  X  two,  you re  run  the  same  experiment, you  get  X  three  and  so  on. And  our  belief  is that  the  experiments  don't  affect  each  other. So  that's  why  they're  called  independent. So  they  the  outcomes of  the  different  experiments don't  affect  each  other. Then  we  also  believe  that all  the  experiments  are  of  the  same  type. All  the  experiments  are the  same  kind  of  experiments, coming  from  the  same  distribution. That's  why  we  call  it  identical  distribution. Independent  and  identically  distributed, this  is a  very  common  assumption  in  machine  learning. Since  they  are  independent and  identically  distributed, if  I  want  to  compute  the  likelihood, The  likelihood  of  the  data  set  over  here. The  whole  data  set. The  likelihood  of  the  whole  data  set the  product  of  the  individual  likelihoods of  the  data  points  inside  your  data  set, because  of  the  IID  assumption. Identical  sorry, independent  tells  you  that  you can  write  this  into  a  product  of  PDX. This  is  from  the  product is  due  to  the  independence  assumption. And  then  the  identical assumption  tells  you  that  the  P, this  P  is  the  same, same  for  the  si. We  are  basically  using  the  same PDF  for  all  the  i. If  I  write  it  out,  then  this  would  be. Remember,  this  is  the  Bernd, Another  way  to  write  it is  if  you  want to  write  it  this  way  is  also  okay. Remember,  we  use  this  Bernd  PDF, we  give  it  a  special  name  a  special  symbol, the  PDF  or  the  Bernov, then  this  guy  will  be  theta  X. Here  we  are  basically  assuming  all  the  x01. V.  One  minus  X. Then  of  course,  you  can simplify  this.  This  will  visas. The  product  becomes a  summation  in  the  exponent. In  the  lecture  notes,  we  give it  a  notation  right. We  call  this  n  one. So  n  one  is  just  this  submission, the  number  of  the  number of  X  that  is  equals  to  one,  right. And  then  this  will  be  zero. So  n0pn  one  will  be  equal  to. So  n  zero  is  the  number of  X  that  is  equals  to  zero. Okay.  So  that's  how  you  get the  function  for  your  training  data  set. A  numerical  example  here. I  think  I  don't  really  go  through, you  can  see  that  in  this  training  data  set, there  are  seven  ones  and  30. That's  why  your  likelihood  becomes  like  this. Now  let's  say  we don't  know  how  to  solve  this  problem. I  want  to  find  data  values that  will  fit  this  data  as  much  as  possible. Since  this  is  the  likelihood, Lho  basically  tells  you, if  I  have  a  higher  likelihood, that  means  the  probability  of  getting data  values  that  are  close  to this  one  is  higher. Remember  your  PDF. When  I  have  a  PDF, then  if  I  look  at  the  value  at some  some  particular  X  value. This  is  your  PDF  value. What  does  this  PDF  value  tell  you? It  basically  tells  you  if  I take  a  small  region  around  this  x, the  area  under  this  curve basically  tells  me  what's  the  probability that  you  observe  this these  are  small  interval  of  a  value. This  is  basic  the  probability. The  probability  of  observing your  ad  is  between say  between  x  minus  asilon  and  X  plus  as. The  area  under  your  PDF  curve  is basic  indic  indication  of  how  ly, this  particular  a  value  that  you  observe is  with  respect  to  the  PDF. You  can  see  that  this  is  myo. That's  why  we  call this  a  likelihood  function. For  different  values  of  data, is  going  to  reveal  different  lilihood  values. For  example,  if  I  let  data  equals  to  0.6, you  are  going  to  get  a  certain  value. I  t  data  to  be  say  0.4, I'm  going  to  get  a  certain  value. At  some  point,  you  can  see  if I  try  different  values  of  data, your  lilihood  value  is  going to  change  according  to  data. This  is  actually  a  function. This  is  a  function. A  function  of  this is  actually  a  function  of  data. So  maybe  that's  called  data. When  I  change  the  value  of  data, the  value  of  this  Lho  function  will  change. Of  course,  according  to  our  intuition, if  I  want  to  say that  I  want  my  data to  be  as  likely  as  possible. Since  you  have  already  observed the  data,  this  is  what  you  observed, most  likely  is  going  to  correspond  to some  data  value  that  gives you  high  probability  of  you having  observed  this  data  set. That's  the  rationale  behind this  maximum  likelihood  estimation. Before  we  formalize  it, let's  do  at  one  more  example  here. Here,  instead  of  the  Balu  D, now  you  have  I being  exponential,  exponential. So  again,  IID.  Your  exponent. Again,  I  can  compute  the  D  hoo. But  now  my  parameter,  I  call  it  Lambda. You  can  call  it  data  one. Same  thing  because  it's  IID, I  can  write  it  as  the  individual  ones  product of  the  individual  ones. Okay.  And  then  each  individual  exponential, is  of  the  form  Lambda  E  minus  Lambda  x. Okay.  Of  course  here, we  assume  that  all  the  x1x, these  are  all  negative. So  if  you  have  something  that  is  negative, that  it  cannot  come  from the  exponential  distribution,  right? Remember  your  exponential  distribution  side, right,  your  PDF  do  sides. Okay.  So  it's  going  to  be  equal  to zero  when  the  x, your  observation  is  less  than  zero. So  this  is  also  the  case is  b  you  have to  choose  the  right  model,  right? So  that  basically  indicates that  right your  domain  knowledge  is  also  important. If  you  observe  you  know  that your  random  variables, your  observations  are  are  non  negative, you  wouldn't  want  to,  for  example, choose  a  gauing  distrition, or  choose  something  else  that has  positive  probability of  getting  negative  observations. This  where  the  choice  of  the  model  comes  in. Anyway,  this  product,  you  can  simplify  it. The  product  becomes  the  exponent. Again,  same  thing,  you  can  go  and  try  it  out. If  I  put  in  different  values  of  Lambda, you  are  going  to  get different  values  of  likelihood. This  is  basically  a  function  of  the  Lambda. We  want  to  find  what  is  the  value  of  Lambda that  is  most  likely  to have  generated  this  observed  data. I  think  I  can  skip the  gaussian  similarly  Gaussian  distribution. You  can  compute  the  likelihood. This  one,  the  formula may  do  slightly  more  complicated, but  it's  actually  the  same  formula  as  before. I  basically  you  just  have  to  write  it  as a  product  and  then  plug in  the  formula  and  then  you  can  simplify. Here  in  this  case, my  data  is  mile  and  Sigma square  these  are  the  two  unknown  parameters. The  mean  and  the  variance  are  both  unknown, and  you  can  see  that  the  likelihood  now looks  like  this  for this  particular  observed  data. You  can  try  different  values  of  Mu  and  Sigma. For  different  values  for Mu  and  Sigma  is  zero  and  one, then  your  likelihood  is  this  value. If  I  choose  u to  be  minus  one  Sigma  to  be  one, then  I'm  actually  getting  this  likelihood. You  can  see  that  clearly  this  one  is  higher, is  higher  than  the  one  at  the  bottom, which  means  that  the  set  of  parameters  are more  more  fitting  to  the  data. This  is  a  data  set  that  you  have  observed. This  one  is  this  set  of  parameters  will fit  this  data  set  better right  because  it  has a  higher  likelihood  value. So  of  course,  we  are  not  going  to  stop  there, and  we  are  not  going  to  do  trial  and  error. We  want  a  systematic  way  to  find the  best  value  of  data  or in  the  best  value  of  data, right  to  fit  our  training  data. So  as  you  may  have  suspected. So  this  is  called the  maximum  likelihood  estimator. Maximum  likelihood  estimate. In  sort  MLE.  So  basically, we  will  do  at  the  likelihood. D  is  your  training  data  set. And  so  this  guy  is  called  the  likelihood. This  is  the  likelihood  function, and  we  are  going  to  maximize? We  maximize  over  all  the  possible  parameters inside  your  parameter  space. So  Ma  maximum  likelihood  estimate  is  the  upma Means  that  I'm  going  to  take the  data  value  that  maximizes  this, M.  Data  ML  is the  maximizer  of  this  likelihood. Okay.  In  illustration  over  here,  for  example, in  this  particular  PDF, when  my  data  has  three  different  values, these  are  the  three  different  PDF. It  depends  on  what is  the  observation  that  you  make. For  example,  if  I  If  I observe  the  data  that value  somewhere  over  here, I  sorry,  if  I  observe the  X  somewhere  over  here, then  you  can  see  obviously  the  orange one  is  the  one  that  will  fit  your  x  better. If  I  observe  the  somewhere  over  here, then  is  the  green  one,  right, the  data  goes  to  tank  that will  fit  your  data  better. So  it  there's  no  best  data  in  advance,  right. It  all  depends  on  the training  data  that  you  are  observing. So  this  is  where you  this  is  where your  training  data  is  very  important,  right? Basically, we  are  maximizing  the  likelihood  function, so  we  are  trying  to  ask  ourselves, which  value  of  data  will  make this  IID  data  set that  we  see  to  be  the  most  likely. Mi  the  likelihood  is  actually equivalent  to  maximizing  the  log  likelihood. This  is  the  same,  same as  or  rather  as  put  maps. The  map  is  going  to  be  the  same. As  maximizing  the  lot  because  why? Because  your  lot  is  is  a  increasing  function. Meaning  if  I  take. If  I  take  A  is  smaller  than  B, then  lot  of  A  will  be  smaller  than  a  lot  of. So  it  doesn't  change  the  ordering. If  something  is  bigger, originally  is  bigger,  then you  take  lot,  it  will  still  be  bigger. That's  why  when  I  apply  the  lot  function. To  this  likelihood,  it  doesn't change  where  the  maximizer  is. You  can  actually  apply any  increasing  function  they  want. It  won't  change.  What  is the  value  of  the  maximizer. But  why  we  want  to  apply lot  is  because  as  you  see  before, this  likelihood  usually  we assume  it  is  IID  data, so  we  will  write  it  as  a  product. If  I  apply  lot  to  eight, then  it  becomes  a  summation. And  this  makes  it  easier for  us  to  perform  calculations. To  do  summation  is  easier  for  us  to take  derivative  right  when  we  want  to differentiate  this  lot  likelihood, is  much  easier  to  differentiate the  lot  likelihood  than to  differentiate  the  likelihood  itself, right  without  the  lot because  there's  a  product. If  you  are  trying to  differentiate  the  product, then  you  have  to  use  a  chain  rule. There's  a  product  chain  rule. So  if  you  want  to  differentiate  this  guy, you  have  to  use  the  product  chain, which  is  very  complicated,  right. But  to  differentiate  this  guy, the  summation  you  just bring  the  summation  inside  at. So  then  you  just  differentiate each  lot  term  right  inside  the  submission. This  makes  it  much  easier. But  of  course,  I  mean,  this  is  a  tool, is  just  a  way  of  doing  things. It  doesn't  mean  that you  always  have  to  do  that. Sometimes  Sometimes may  when  we  find  the  maximum, you  don't  have  to do  any  differentiation,  right. My  aside. How  to  find  the  maximum  of  a  function. So  we  have  data. This  function  we  want  to  maximize. The  usual  way,  the  usual  way is  if  this  function is  if  it's  differentiable, be  differentiable,  then  what  do  we  do? We  take  the  first  order  derivative, and  then  we  set  to  zero, then  you  can  find  the  data  star. You  find  the  root  of  this  equation. Since  we  are  trying  to  maximize, actually,  we  need  to  do  one  more  statep. We  need  to  take  the  second  derivative and  we  want  to  so  that  is  concave. This  is  being  concave  is  negative,  right. Under  these  two  conditions, then  your  data  would  be  the  maximizer. But  of  course,  are  Most  of  the  time  we don't  have  to  verify  this because  most  of  the  time we  can  tell  that  it's  true. In  this  course,  most  of  the  time  we  will just  do  this.  We  will  just  do  this. If  you  want  to  verify  this,  of  course, nobody  you  can  do  this  directly. But  in  terms  of  the  calculations, it  should  be  quite  obvious that  whatever  you  get  is the  one  that  does the  maximization  instead  of  minimization. But  of  course,  this  is  not  the  only  case. What  happens  if  it's  not  differentiable. Not  differentiable,  then  you  cannot. You  cannot differentiate  cannot  take  derivative. To  D  data. In  this  case,  we  have to  use  other  techniques. It  doesn't  mean  that  we always  always  solve  equation. Sometimes  you  have  to  be flexible  depending  on  your  application, depending  on  your  problem. Maybe  you  need  other  techniques. There  are  many  timization  techniques you  can  use  optimization. You  can  do,  you  know,  simulated  annulling, you  can  do  general  timization  step. So  there  are  now many  ways  to  do  optimization. Okay.  Yeah.  So  this  as  a  side  note. But  in  this  course,  I think  most  of  the  problems  we will  be  doing  differentiation, B  y  all  the  problems  that  we  are going  to  use  as  illustrations, we  basically  assume  they  are the  easy  ones,  can  differentiate. And  so  we  always like  to  take  the  lot  likelyhood. Okay.  Go  back  to  just  now  the  Berudi  example. So  we  have  the  P,  the  Luddy  hook  right. We  saw  that  this  is  theta n11  minus  theta  n  zero. Okay.  So  if  I  take  the  lot, then  you  can  see  it  simplifies. Before  I  forget. In  this  course  when  I  write  log, I  actually  mean  natural log  natural  log  a  rythm. Some  of  you  may  write  it  as a  L.  This  basically  the  same  thing. If  I  have  other  base  log, then  base  tank  so I  will  write  base  tank  explicitly, then  that  is  the  base  tang  lock. But  in  this  course,  we  will  ma e.  So  we'll  do differentiation  with  respect  to  theta. This  is  n  one  over  data. And  then  we're  going  to set  this  equal  to  zero, solve  for  the  equation. If  you  solve  the  equation, you  find  that  this  data, the  optimal  value  of  data  is n  one  over  n  zero  plus  one  n  one. L  estimate  you  can see  that  it  makes  a  lot  of  sense, The  ML  estimate  happens  to be  basically  the  proportion of  ones  that  you  are  seeing. This  data  is  supposed  to  be the  probability  of  getting  a  one. Now  the  ML  estimate  tells  you  that the  solution  is  to  basically count  the  proportion  of ones  in  your  training  data. For  example,  in  this  training  data  set, your  M  one  is  seven,  you  are  seeing seven  ones  over  here  out  of  ten. ML  estimate  is  0.7. In  the  exponential  case, we  have  In the  exponential  case,  we  have  the  s. Again,  you  can  see  that  to differentiate  this  guy  directly, with  respect  to  Lambda is  not  going  to  be  simple, it  becomes  very  complicated. If  I  take  lot. If  I  take  lo,  then  everything  simplifies. Okay.  And  then  I  take differentiation  differentiate with  respect  to  Lambda. I  set  to  zero  and  then  I  solve  for  da  right. So  this  will  be  my  ML  estimate.  Okay. Okay.  So  On  numerical  example  here  for  you to  check.  Why  Yeah. Why  we  want  to  use  the  ML  estimate,  right? Of  course  the  heuristic reason  is  basically,  right, we  know that  the  likelihood  function is  basically  telling  us, right  how  likely  that your  that  you  are observing  this  training  data  set. So  that's  why  we  believe that  finding  the  data, the  weight  that  maximizes this  likelihood  should  be the  one  that  gives  you  the  right  answer, right  because  this  is  the  training data  set  they  observed. So  that  is  more  on  a  heuristic  level. If  you  are  okay  with  that,  I think  it's  okay,  that's  fine. But  there's a  deeper  mathematical  reason  to  that. So  the  next  part  is  a  supplementary. So  just  for  your  knowledge. So  this  supplementary. So  there's  actually a  deeper  mathematical  reason why  this  is  a  good  approach. So  first  of  all, we  do  at  the  log  likelihood. So  this  is  remember, this  is  your  log  likelihood, is  basically  a  summation  of the  individual  lot  likelihood of  the  individual  data  points.  Okay. So  if  I  take  I  normalize  it  by  one  over  n. Then  if  I  normalize  it  by  one  over  n, you  see  that  this  is  this  is average  right  is  the  average  log  likelihood. This  average  log  likelihood, according  to  the  there's this  result  in  probability  theory, called  the  strong  law  or  large  numbers. We  say  that  if  I take  a  sufficiently  large  number  of  samples, right,  and  take  the  average. Of  course,  I  need  to  assume that  these  samples  are  IID. So  that's  where your  IID  assumption  comes  from. You  I  your  XIs  are  IID. And  because  your  XIs  are  ID, then  if  you  think  of  this  as a  random  variable  itself,  right? I  apply  the  PDF,  I  take  the  lot. I  basically  change  the  value of  the  random  variable. So  this  log  ID  itself is  also  a  random  variable,  right? If  you  assume  that  this  XI  is  random. So  this  guy  itself, right  is  also  IID. Because  your  I  IID, you  apply  the  same  operations  to  it, it  will  still  be  IID,  this  whole  thing. On  basis,  taking  the  average of  many  IID  random  variables. According  to this  strong  law  of  large  numbers, this  average  is  going  to converge  to  the  expectation. Of  the  random  variable. So  the  random  variable is  log  P  x  given  data. Okay.  So  the  y. So  the  average  is  going  to  convert  to whatever  the  expectation  of whatever  average  that  you're  taking. And  moreover,  this  conversion, is  with  respect  sorry, this  expectation  is  with respect  to  the  true  value  of  data. So  yeah.  So  we  assume  that  all  these Is  are  generated  I  ID  according to  some  unknown  data. Is  IID  coming  from  some  distribution  with some  data  not  no  you  don't  sn. But  we  take  a  large  number of  them,  take  the  average. Strong  low  or  large  numbers tells  me  that  it  will convert  to  the  average  value  of  this  lot. PDF  and  how  this  average  value  is computed  is  with  respect to  the  actual  true  data  value, the  true  data  not  value. But  of  course  you  won't  know how  to  compute  this  average, exactly  because  you  don't  so what's  the  data  not  value. But  you  can  imagine  if I'm  you  are  the  one trying  to  find  the  expectation, what  can  you  do? You  just  take  a  large  number, take  the  average  and  this  tells  you  that  this is  a  very  good  approximation  of the  true  expected  value. There's  a  whole  idea  behind  it. We  basically  use  a  strong  large  numbers. And  then  we  know that  this  is  your  average  likelihood. We  know  that  it's  going  to  converge or  approximately  equals to  the  true  expected  value  when  n  is  large. And  then  this  true  expected  value is  the  one  that  we  are  maximizing. Remember,  when  we  try  to maximize  the  locked  likelihood, we  are  basically  maximizing  this  guy, right  now  we  believe  that  this  guy is  is  approximately  equals  to  expectation. Which  means  that  we  are  actually maximizing  this  expectation. When  we  maximize  this, when  we  are  maximizing  this  is  the  same, is  approximately  the  same as  maximizing  this  expectation. Notice  that  the  true  value of  data  note  is  here. The  expectation  is  with  respect to  the  true  value,  which  we  don't  know. We're  now  taking  the  maximization, we're  maximizing  this  data  over  here. So  what  do  we  hope  for?  Right? We  hope  that  this  maximization  will  give  me the  we  hope  that  the what's  the  maximizer  data  star is  going  to  be  Data. If  I  maximize  this  guy, I  can  get  the  maximizer to  be  data  not  then  I'm  done,  right? So  I  will  have  found the  true  theta  the  true  parameter, the  true  model  parameter. So  is  this  valid. So  we  can  see  that  if I  take  this  expectation. Now  I'm  going  to combine  it  with  something  else. I  take  the  negative  of  this  expectation. And  then  I  add  something  to  it. This  one  is  with  respect  to  data. This  is  data. Data  note  is  the  true  value, but  of  course  we  don't  se. But  you  can  see  that  this  is  constant in  terms  of  data  is independent,  independent  of  data. Basically,  I'm  just  adding  a  constant  to  it. I  add  a  constant  to  it. Why  I  won't  do  that because  when  I  add  a  constant  to  it, I  will  be  able  to  simplify the  expression  into something  that  looks  like  this. I'm  adding  a  constant,  it doesn't  change  the  maximizer, add  a  constant  to  it,  then  this becomes  this  expression  over here  and  this  is  called  the  KL  diversions. In  terms  of  simple, you  can  write  its  P  data. Maybe  this  is  the  distribution with  the  parameter  data, the  KL  diversions  between  this  guy  and the  one  with  respect  to  data. Basically  now  when  I When  I'm  maximizing  this  guy, but  now  I  take  negative  for  this  guy. That  means  when  I  maximize this  guy  is  equivalent to  minimizing  this  whole  thing. Because  I  add  a  negative  sign  and then  this  part  here,  this  is  a  constant. This  part  doesn't  affect the  minimization  at  all. This  minimizer  is  the same  as  the  maximizer here.  Nothing  has  changed. Basically,  I  change  the  problem  has changed  to  minimizing  over data  of  the  KL  diversions. As  the  one  that  we're doing  is  this  guy  is  the  same  as  this  guy. Basic  equivalent. Why  I  want  convert  into  KO  diversions  and minimize  it  is  because  of  the  next  theorem. Schengen  has  a  famous  theorem  that  says, This  KO  diversion  is  going  to  be  no  negative, is  no  negative  and  equals  to zero  if  and  only  if the  two  distributions  are  the  same. The  KL  divergence  is basically  telling  you  the  difference. What's  the  distance between  these  two  distributions? Remember,  this  guy  is the  true  distribution  with the  data  not  unknown,  the  true  one. This  is  the  one  that  you're  trying  to  find. If  I'm  trying  to  minimize  this, according  to  Shenon  theorem,  this  function, this  KL  divergence  is  going to  be  no  negative, right  and  is  going  to achieve  the  minimum  value  equality, if  and  only  if  the  theta  esta. So  this  is  the  minimizer. So  if  I  ready  go  and minimize  the  KO  diversions,  right, the  minimizer  has  to  be  the  parameter, the  tru  data  distribution  parameter. Okay.  So  it's  very  nice,  right. So  the  basic, your  strong  large  numbers  right. And  this  is  all  you  know  it  is  like It's  quite  amazing. It's  quite  amazing  that  this  is just  mathematics  and  nothing to  do  with  the  physical  world, and  yet  the  math tells  you  that  by  doing  it  this  way, you  will  get  exactly  the  true answer  in  the  physical  world. That's  the  beauty  behind  this. The  strong  lot  of  large  number  basically tells  you  that  if  I  go  and minimize  or  maximize  this  lot  likelihood of  the  whole  training  data, if  my  training  data  set is  sufficiently  large, I'm  going  to  get  something that  is  going  to  be  very  close to  the  real  actual  ground  parameters. This  is  g  guaranteed mathematically  guaranteed. That's  the  reason  why  this  MLE,  right, maximum  likelihood  estimator  is  probably the  most  widely  accepted  way  that  people go  about  trying  to  train  your  model. Some  of  you  may  be  more  familiar, for  example,  with  classification. Yeah.  Those  of  you  who  have done  maybe  come  across  a  bit  of  maximum  li, you  will  definitely  have  come  across this  thing  called  the  cross  entropy  loss. Cross  entropy  loss  is  actually derived  from  the  maximum  likelihood  estimate. The  cross  entropy  loss is  basically  based  on  the  MLE. How  does  it  work?  Basically  here, we  have  cross  entropy. We  have  K  K  classes that  you  want  to  classify  into. So  we  have  K  labels. Basically,  you  have  some  input  feature x  and  then  you  want  to  label  it. You  want  to  predict  a  y that  comes  from  one  of these  K  labels.  Okay. To  do  that,  we  will train  a  machinal  ing  model,  So  model. It  could  be  a  probablistic  model, or  it  could  be  a  neural  network  model, but  it  doesn't  matter. You  can  always  think  of  the  model, even  it's  a  neural  network  model, it's  actually  a  probability  distribution, right? So  the  output  from  your  neural  network before  it  comes  to  the  final  output, the  logic  layer,  the  soft  max  layer of  your  neural  network  is actually  a  probability  distribution. We  can  think  of  whatever  model that  we  are  trying  to  learn  is actually  a  probability  distribution where  you  give  it  some  input  at. Of  course,  data  is  the  parameters inside  your  probability  distribution, and  then  this  model, is  going  to  tell  you  say  with 80%  probability  is  going  to  be  label  one, 10%  probability  is  Label  two, 5%  probability,  T  three  and  so  on. This  model  is  basically going  to  tell  you  give you  a  vector  of probability  that  corresponds to  each  of  the  labels. Okay.  So  here  we  are  trying to  to  use  the  MLE. Basically,  we  want  to  find  the  best  data. We  want  to  using the  training  data  to  find the  best  model  weights. How  can  we  do  this  from  the  MLE  perspective? Basically,  we  are  trying  to maximize  the  log  likelihood of  the  training  data. We  have  training  data,  do  this. We  have  XI  and  YI  pas. Say  you  have  of  them,  right? You  have  training  pas, and  then  as  before, we  can  find  the  log  likelihood of  this  training  data  set. Okay.  Now  your  training  data  set  is  X  and  Y, X  and  Y  I  PS. Okay.  So  now  we  can  expand  this. So  I'm  taking  out  the  XI  first,  right? So  remember  your  probability  rule, right,  probability  of  PDF  of  X  and  Y. Join  PD  of  X  and  Y  can  be  written as  Y  given  a, and  the  PDF  of  X. So  I'm  taking  out  the  PD  of  X  and then  left  with  the  Y  given  a. So  why  I  won't  do  that because  this  is  your  model,  right. So  I  I  write  S  Q. So  this  is  the  model  that  you're  training. This  is  the  outcome  of  your  model. Then  here  we're  going  to make  an  important  assumption. When  people  do  cross  entropy, this  is  actually,  this  is the  inherent  assumption  that  we're  making. We're  going  to  assume  that  this  guy over  here  doesn't  depend  on  data. It's  just  equals  to  f.  Basically, the  PDF  of  the, the  facial  vectors  doesn't affect  the  training  the  model  parameters. This  is  a  inherent  assumption  when  we are  actually  doing  the  cross  and  showy  loss. The  facial  vectors  themselves doesn't  depend  on  your  model  parameters, which  make  sense,  I  mean, the  facial  vectors  is  something you  observe,  in  the  world. So  your  neighbor  may  decide to  use  a  different  model  than  you,  of  course, what  you  observed  in the  world  is  not  affected by  choice  of  parameters and  not  affected  by your  neighbor's  choice  of  parameters. We  are  going  to  assume  that  this  guy is  P  at  size, so  it  doesn't  depend  on  data. Then  you  can  see  that  here  down  rewrite this  s  rewrite  this  first  part in  terms  of  this  thing  over  here. I  basically  collect  all  the  terms  together. We  are  going  to  collect  in terms  of  the  class  one  to  k, indicator  function  of  y  equals  to k.  So why  I  equals  k.  Okay. This  is.  This  is  nothing  but I  basically  rewrite  the  sum. By  taking  all  the  y  values that  are  equals  to  the  same  label, put  all  the  same  labels together  inside  this  sum. This  indicator  is  basically say  if  my  y  eques  to  k, then  I  put  inside  this particular  term,  or  this  sum. So  nothing  much  to  it. Indeed,  this  is  basically  what  we call  the  cross  and  locks. Basically  we're  going  to  put  divide  by  n, take  negative  and  then  multiply  by minus  n  at  the  at  the  front. This  green  one,  this  is called  the  cross  entropy  loss. So  when  we  are  maximizing the  lot  hood  we  are maximizing  the  lotto because  there's  a  minus  here, then  it's  equivalent  to minimizing  the  cross  entropy  loss. That's  where your  cross  entropy  loss  comes  from. And  okay.  I  think  I  miss  out. Okay.  So  I  think  it's  time to  do  some  exercise. I  think  I  missed  out  that  one. Okay.  So  maybe  let's  take  a  minute, right  to  at  the  ya. Okay,  try  this  out. Okay.  So  to  do  the  clap, you  have  to  go  through  the  NTU ln  and  log  in  through the  T  n  so  that  your  responses  are  captured. Okay. I  see  some  so  called  confusion  indicators. So  please  either  pose your  questions  on  the  message so  that  I  can  try  to  address  them  or, you  know,  so  welcome  to  raise  the  questions. Okay.  Let  me  know which  part  is  confusing.  So  I  can  address. All  right.  So  I  think  most  of  you  have  tried, Let  me  see  what  this  was. Yes.  Okay.  Okay.  So  we have  exponenture,  random  variables. This  is  your  data  set. Okay.  So  we  saw  just  now, right  the  D  hoop. The  Light  hoop  is basically  the  product,  right. The  product  of  the  individual  hoods. This  guy  is  Lambda  and  summation  of  the. Here,  we  have  how  many data  points,  four  data  points. So  we  have  Lambda  to  p  four. And  then  we  need  to  sum  up  all  these  terms. Sum  up  all  these  terms. We  have  1.5  0.1,  Tums  5.1. Okay.  So  the  first  part the  first  one  is  wrong, right,  because  this  would be  Lambda  power  four. Okay.  So  second  one is  incorrect,  also,  right. Both  the  power  and  the  sum  is  wrong and  so  the  third  one  is  the  right  answer. Okay.  So  now  we  want  to  find  the  MLE,  right. So  better  to  take  the  log. Set  to  zero.  And  then you  take  not  set  to  zero. You'll  take  the  derivative,  right  the  Lambda. So  f  then  set  to  zero. So  your  ML  estimate  will  be  fall  over  5.1. Okay.  So  what's  fall  over  5.1? Zero  point.  T  will be  number  two,  right.  Okay. All  right.  Okay? Okay.  Second  question. Okay. So  here,  this  is a  slightly  complicated  distribution,  right? Not  the  standard  one  that we  encountered  so  far. But  the  approach  is  the  same. H. Okay. So  here  you  have given  a  probability  distribution. So  you  have  this  probability  distribution, right. Depending  on  the basically  the  different  observations, whether  it's  Alpha,  Beta,  or  Delta, you  are  given  different  probabilities. Of  these  probabilities  are a  function  of  some  unknown  pea. Your  data  set  has  five  Alphas, two  beta,  and  three  Delta. I  want  to  find  the  L.  Five  Alpha  s, that  means  each  Alpha  is  theta  square. Five  Alpha  will  be  this. Then  two  beta.  Each  beta  is two  theta  one  minus  theta and  then  you  have  two  of  them. Square  here,  and  then  you  have  Delta  s. One  minus  theta  square. I  will  simplify  this, this  will  be  theta  ten  times  four theta  square  one  minus  theta  six. You  can  simplify  further  four  theta  12, one  minus  theta  eight. This  is  your  hod  function. Of  course,  if  I  take  the  lot,  take  the  lot, you  will  become  a  81  minus. Same  thing  as  before,  I  can  differentiate  it. So  you  minus  and  then  set  equals  to  zero. So  you  have  Okay. Sorry. So  I  I  hope you  saw  the  right  things  just  now. So  you  are  left  with  six  over theta  1/1  minus  theta,  right? So  six  minus. Okay.  Did  I  make  a  mistake? I  think  I  made  a  mistake. Sorry.  Okay.  So  coming  back  to  here, we  have  we  take  the  lock,  right? Take  the  lock.  So  don't make  the  same  mistake  as  me. Be  careful  of  this. The  four,  the  constant  is outside  when  you  take  the  lock  is  lock  four, then  this  one  plus  lock  theta  plus  eight. In  fact,  this  constant  doesn't  matter. When  you  differentiate, the  constant  becomes  zero,  doesn't  matter. Okay.  Then  I  differentiate  it. So  data. Okay.  So  this  is  two  this  is  three. So  we  have  three  over Theta Theta equals  three. So  Theta  equals  3/5. Okay.  So  I  think most  of  you  got  the  correct  answer, 0.6  at  3/5. Okay,  by  the  way, all  the  clap  is  even  after  the  lecture, I  have  also  put  the  offline the  questions  offline  as  well  in  the  clap. If  you  want  to  review the  questions  or  try  out,  you  can  do  that. If  you  go  to  the  same  clap, you  should  be  able  to  see  a  so  called offline  or  self  paid  session. So  it's  the  same  question as  what  we  go  in  class. So  this  question  here, you  have  to  think  more  flexibly. It  doesn't  mean  that  you want  to  always  differentiate  things,  right? Because  you  may  see  that  this one  is  not  differentiable. T H. Okay.  I  hope  all  of  you  have  tried. So  you  look  at this  likelihood  over  here.  Okay. You'll  see  that,  maybe  we can  convert  to  lot  likelihood also.  No  harming  that. So  the  lot  Lho  will  be  minus  c  So  constant. Because  this  proposion  just means  that  there's  a  constant two  e.  This  guy equals  to  some  constant  multiply  by  this. The  lot  will  have some  constant  here,  but  it  doesn't  matter. You  can  see  if  I  try  to differentiate  this  with  respect  to  data, this  not  differentiable,  right? You  cannot  differentiate. Basically,  I  want  to maximize  this  log  likelihood, I  basically  need  to  just  look  at this  function  and  see how  to  maximize  it  right. Why  is  the  observation,  right? Is  a  fixed  value.  The  question  is, what  data  value  is  the  one that  will  maximize  this  function. To  maximize  this  whole  thing, because  there's  a  minus  C  is  the  same equivalent  equivalent  to  minimizing, minimizing  this  guy. How  to  minimize  this? What  is  the  minimum  value? The  minimum  value  is  zero  because this  absolute  value  is always  bigger  or  equals  to  zero. The  minimum  value  is  zero  and the  minimum  value  is  given  by  data  equals  y. When  you  data  equals, then  this  becomes  zero. That's  why  your  MLE  is. You  single  observation  is exactly  the  optimal  parameter  value that  you're  going  to  estimate. Any  questions?  Okay.  I  think this  is  probably  the  last  one. Let's  take  a  break  here. We'll  come  back  at  around  835.  Okay. Okay.  Yeah. Coming  back  to  this  Yeah. So  to  point  out  something is  it  may  seem  a  bit  Yeah, some  of  you  may  be  confused by  the  notation  over  here. So  basically,  we  have  this  sum. So  this  is  the  cross  NOP  example. So  we  have  the  summation of  the  log  likelihoods. I  mean,  the  logo  of the  Y  condition  on  the  ads. Okay.  This  part  the  ds  one  we've taken  out  and  we  go  sum  is  constant. Then  why  you  write  it  in  this  way. So  will  give  a  quick  example. For  example,  you  see  four  data  points, your  y  one  is  equal  to  two, your  y  two  equals  to  one, y  two  equals  to  two  y  four  equals  to  one. What  this  indicator  function  is  doing is  basing  I  write  it  as a  sum  in  this  way  so  that  I  basically choose  all  the  data that  have  the  same  labels, and  I  basically  combine them  into  one  term  together. It's  basic  saying  that  I  take  all  the  y that  is  all  the  say  all  the  y  equals  to  one. All  the  y  equals  to  one, I  write  it  and  combine  them  together. I  take  all  the  y  equals  to  sorry, y  equals  to  two,  y  equals  to  two, I  basically  just  write it  and  combine  them  together. It's  as  simple  as  that.  Is  just rearranging  the  terms  and then  combine  them  together with  the  same  y  values. Why  we  want  to  do  that  is  because  maybe some  of  you  are  more  familiar with  this  expression. If  you  look  at  this  guy, this  one  over  n, if  you  bring  side  this  summation. You're  going  to  get  the  indicator of  y  over  k  divided  by  n. This  guy  when  n  is  large, this  is  going  to  be  as  angles  infinity, this  is  going  to  be  the  probability  of  y i  equals  to  k.  That's  why  I sometimes  you  will  see  people  write the  cross  anual  P  loss  as  this  as the  P  of  Y  i  equals  to k  instead  of  this  indicator  function. Yeah.  But  this  is  an  approximation. If  you  know  what  is the  true  value  of  the  probability, if  you  can  use  it. But  most  of  the  time  we  don't, then  we  will  just  basically  this  guy  is just  estimating  what's the  probability  value  of  the  YI. Next  example  is  the  linear  regression. This  is  also  a  very  commonly  use  technique. Basically  here,  we  have  y, is  called  the  response  variable that  you  are  trying  to  estimate, and  this  y  response variable  is  going  to  depend on  some  input  input  variables, as  12  to  x  d.  We combine  everything  to  one single  feature  vector  a. We  can  write  the  model  as  y equals  to  t  weight. So  our  model  is some  weight  transpose  times  a. So  this  is  a  vector, us  some  apps  long. This  is  the  noise.  Okay. So  the  weight  the  weight, you  can  think  of  as  W  one, W  two,  two  d. So  the  decompon,  a  visual  vector has  also  de  components. This  guy  is  nothing  but  that's  one  to  us.  So. Then  the  noise  here, we  are  going  to  assume  that this  noise  is  g  noise, o  g  noise  with  some  variance. We  can  see  that  I I  condition  on  the  value  of  x, y  condition  on  you  observe  the  side. This  is  your  observe  feature. If  I  condition  on  X, then  this  part  is  constant. This  will  be  just  a  galian. A  gal  with  this  as  the  mean. This  will  be  the  mean  of the  gasian  because  this  is  mom. Then  of  course, the  variant  will  stay  the  same. It's  a  galsiu  with  me W  transpose  t  and  variance  square.  Okay. Okay.  So  we  can  do  the  same  thing  as  before. We  have  IID,  training  data. So  we  have  of  these  labeled  pass. Okay,  maybe  I  shouldn't  call  it  label, but  the  Ys  are  real  values, down  here,  this  regression  problem. So  maybe  we  call  it  response, these  are  Ys  are  response, not  labels.  So,  same  thing. We  can  do  the  likelihood. So  the  lot  likelihood  would  be same  as  before  so  the like  the  lolihood  of  the  training  data. Here  we're  going  to do  things  slightly  different. We  are  going  to  because  we  are  going  to  train a  model  that  is  conditioned  on  the  input  ads. We  are  going  to  straightaway do  at  the  lot  light  he  of  the  y, but  condition  on  the  ads  as  well  as  the  data. We  are  going  to  basic  condition  on all  the  values  of  ads  and  the  parameters. These  are  the  model  parameters that  we  want  to  learn. This  one  will  be  of  the  individual. We  know  that  this  is  a  gaussian, lot  of  a  gas  of  Yi, and  the  mean  of  the  gaussian  is the  W  transpose  of  the  X  i. The  Xi  is  all  vectors. Maybe  I  should  write  it as  the  whole  set  of  vectors. Yeah.  Basically,  this  five  ads  will represent  all  the ad  vectors  collected  together. Data,  you  will  see  what this  notation  can  represent. We'll  introduce something  slightly  more  general, so  we  will  see  what  this  notation will  exactly  represent. But  for  now,  right,  you  think  of  it  as basically  the  what's the  fal  vectors  collected  together. This  one,  each  of  the  data points  will  be  condition on  W  transpose  this vector  and  what's  that the  variance  will  assume  to  be the  same  Cigma  square.  It's  I  ID. According  to  the  Gauian  distribution, we  can  now  Remember  your  gal  galian  y  given Cigma  square  This  proportional what's  that  e  -1/2 Cima  square  y  minus  M  squared. If  you  want  mi,  write  down  of  the  constant, this  is  two  Pi  cima  square. This  is  a  gusing  PD,  you  plug  everything  in. There's  a  lot  here,  then  you  will basically  get  the  exponent  -1/2  cima  square. Y  i,  the  mill  is  transpose.  Square. And  then  you  lot  of  the  constant. These  are  all  constant  doesn't depend  on  W.  So I  don't  really  need  to  go and  compute  the  just  write  constant. B  at  the  end  of  the  day  right  when I  take  differentiation  is not  going  to  matter  anyway. Okay.  More  compactly,  we  can actually  write  it  in  this  very  compact  form. I  I  define  this  five  to  be just  all  the  apps  all  the  ads  stack  together. So  we  have  n  of  them  data  set. We  basically  put  all  the  ads stack  in  the  matric. You  can  write  this  as minus  five  is  basically all  the  stack  together  as  well. Okay.  Yeah.  So  I  hope  you  all  can  see  this. In  case  you  are  not  familiar, what  is  this  norm  square  right. This  is  basically  the  square of  the  component. So  this  is  called  the  L  two  norm. So  basically  can  no,  right? In  your  equ  space, you  will  take  the  square  of  the  components, add  them  up  right  and then  take  the  square  root. So  because  we  are  doing the  square  nom,  right. So  that's  why  there's  no  square  root. Okay. The  advantage  of  writing in  this  form  is  so  that  it becomes  very  simple  to  manipulate. Basically,  you  can  see  that  here. According  to  our  MLE, we  are  trying  to  find  the  MLE, that  means  we  are  trying  to maximize  the  lot  likelihood. Trying  to  maximize  the  lot  lihood, that  means  we're  trying  to maximize  this  whole  thing. Then  this  constant  doesn't contain  the  W,  so  it  doesn't  matter. So  we're  trying  to  maximize  this  guy,  right. And  to  maximize  this  guy, you  can  see  that  there's  a  minus  here, so  it's  equivalent  to minimizing  this  part,  right. The  MLE  is  equivalent to  minimizing  over,  which  is  a  factor. Yeah,  so  we'll  see  how  to  minimize  this. But  you  can  see  that  this  is a  very  simple  model. You  have  a  linear  model whereby  we  assume  that the  response  is  going  to  depend  in a  linear  way  on  the  input  variable  as. We  can  slightly  generalize  this  by introducing  non  linear  relationships called  basis  functions. Instead  of  taking  the  ads, Instead  of  taking  the  ads as  a  raw  feature  vector, I  now  apply  a  function  to  it, and  this  function  can  be something  that's  non  linear. I  can  use  one  function, for  example,  I  choose  one  function  51. I  apply  to  the,  the  input  feature. Maybe  I'm  still  not  happy  with  it. I  can  choose  another  function  f  two, apply  to  the  input  feature  and  so  on. I'm  going  to  choose  basis  functions, apply  to  the  input  features, and  then  I'm  going  to  use  this  model  instead, I'm  going  to  take  a  linear  combination of  the  basis  functions. Instead  of  just  the  ax  itself, instead  of  just  the  components  of  a  side, you  can  see  the  difference  here is  now  we  have  sum  of  m, W  i  As compared  to  us  now, we  are  basically  taking  summation  one  to  D, W,  write  it  at the  component  of  the  factor. Basically,  just  now,  we  are  basically  just taking  each  component  value as  the  basis  function. Now  I  let  you  be  more  general. I  can  choose  some  arbitrary  basis  function. For  example,  a  very  simple  example, let's  say  your  x  has two  components,  two  variables. You  can  for  example,  choose your  first  basis  function to  be  just  a  constant. This  is  doesn't  depend on  the  x  itself,  is  possible. I  just  let  it  to  be  a  constant  one. Your  second  basis  function would  be  just  taking the  first  component  of  your  x,  x  one, your  third  basis  function, take  the  second  component  as  two, and  then  now  you  can  have  more  notes. Now  I'm  going  to  take  one  square, and  then  I'm  going  to  take  two  square. Previously,  in  the  simplest  case, we  don't  have  this  square  terms, you  basically  just  take  x1x2 as  the  your  basis  function. You  didn't  even  have  a  one  right  now. Now  we  can  any  to  whatever that  we  like  that  fits  our  problem. You  can  see  that  in  this  example, this  would  be  your  linear  regression  model. This  still  consider  linear  regrection, right  although  we  are  introducing non  linearities  in  terms of  in  terms  of  the  basis  function, but  the  non  generality  is basically  processing  the  input  features. We  are  not  the  model  parameters, are  not  inside  the  non  linear  part. The  model  parameters,  the  W  one, W  two  are  still  in  the  linear  part. That's  why  this  is still  called  linear  regression. The  advantage  of  this  having this  more  general  framework is  that  you  can  see,  for  example, in  this  example,  your  observation, is  distributed  in  this  way. If  we  are  using  just  the  simple  one with  the  d  one  and  adds two  as  a  basis  function, then  you  are  basically  creating a  flat  surface  to try  to  model  all  these  data  points. But  you  can  see  obviously it's  not  going  to  work  well, But  now  if  I  have the  quadratic  components  inside, your  surface  becomes  quadratic  surface, so  we  can  see  that  it can  fit  the  data  better. This  will  be  very  advantageous  to  your  model. Depending  on  your  model, then  you'll  have  to choose  different  basis  functions. Same  as  before. Now  we  are  basically  going  to  this  five. This  five  is  called  the  design  matrix. This  design  measure,  basically, each  row  will  correspond to  one  basis  function. Sorry  each  column  will correspond  to  one  basis  function, each  row  will  correspond  to  one  data  point. The  first  data  point, the  first  row  is correspond  to  the  first  data  point. Basically,  apply  the  basis  function to  to  to  each  data  point. The  first  row  is  all  the  x  one. So  here  we  have  m  basis  functions. And  then  the  second  row  will correspond  to  the  second  data  point. So.  So  we  have any  data  points. Okay. So  this  is  called  the  design  matrix. But  the  L  is  the  same  as  is  that, you  know,  instead  of  X  here, now  we  use  the  not,  right? Okay. Yeah.  But  the  math  is  the  same  as  before. Basically  replace  the  I  with  the  five  I. Then  you  can  write  everything. Everything  is  still  the  same  as  before, so  we  are  trying  to  minimize  over the  is  y  minus the  design  matri  multiply multiply  by  the  tmters  of  the  model. Now  we  want  to  minimize  this, you  can  see  that  this  guy. Is  the  same  as  the  transpose, multiply  by  itself. So  you  have  U  transpose. I  hope  you  can  see  this  you  can  verify  this. U  transpose  is  up  to  say,  then  um. So  when  you  expand  out this  U  transpose  is  exactly  the  sum  of  the  U. We  can  write  in  this  way.  This  is  one  of the  advantage  if  you  choose the  right  notation,  becomes  much  simpler. If  you  do  at  this  messy  summation, it's  very  hard  to  try to  make  sense  of  it  and  try  to  differentiate. You  choose  the  right  notation. Everything  becomes  very  simple,  right. There's  something  nice  about  math. If  you  can  write  something the  writing  abstract notation  actually  helps  you. When  you  spend  this  out, there's  a  Y  transpose  Y, that  one  doesn't  include  the W.  We  are  trying  to minimize  with  respect  to  W, so  I  don't  need  to  care. So  I  only  care  about the  terms  that  have  ws  inside. Minus. And  then  plus  some  constant  term, that  constant  here  means constant  in  terms  of  the  doesn't contain  the  W.  This  part that  then  we  have  to  make  use  of the  matrix  differentiation  formulas. We're  going  to  take  derivative  with  respect to  the  vector,  partial  derivative. We  can  apply  these  two  formula  to  this. The  first  formula,  we  can  apply  here, and  then  the  second  formula  we  apply  here. This  i  transpose  is  basically  your  A, X  transpose  A  X, take  derivative  with  respect  to  X  is  this. Basically,  when  you  take the  partial  derivative  with respect  to  y  applying  these  formulas, we  are  going  to  get  this  part  is  A. You're  going  to  five  transpose,  five  plus, e  transpose  a  e  transpose  because the  A  symmetric  at transpose  equals  to  A, so  that's  why  you  have  two. Then  this  one  this  is  your  e  transpose. You  are  going  to  get  five  transpose y  there's  a  two  also  and  set  to  zero. And  finally,  you  can  solve for  W.  Assuming  assuming that  this  A  is invertible  meaning  you  can  find  the  inverse. The  inverse  of  the  matrix, then  my  optimal  the  ML  estimator will  be  given  by  this  guy. Then  you  will  get  an  exact  solution, the  ML  estimator. In  some  cases,  it's  not  invertible, so  people  will  use the  pseudo  inverse.  The  pseudo  inverse. Yeah,  you  can  replace this  with  the  pedo  verse, but  that  will  not  be the  exact  optimal  solution. I  mean,  in  that  case, you  may  have  multiple  solutions. Sed  inverse  is  one  of  the  solutions. When  will  it  be  invertible,  right? From  your  linear  algebra, this  five  trans  f must  have  linearly  independent  columns, which  means  that  you must  have  more  data  samples than  the  dimension  of  your  space,  right. Remember  what  is  five, five,  the  correspond  to your  basis,  your  basis  functions. So  basically  down  here, we're  choosing  basis  function. We  believe  that  the  space has  basic  n  dimensions. And  then  the  roles  are  the  roles. N  rows  are  the  basic  n  data  points. For  it  to  be  linearly  independent, we  need  to  have  more  data than  the  number  of  basis  functions. So  each  basis  function  will  correspond to  one  parameter  10. So  this  is  bs  saying that  In  order  to  estimate  the  Wi, to  have  an  optimal  solution, then  you  need  more  data points,  more  data  sample. This  is  also  known  as  the  square  solution. Quick  numerical  examples. Same  thing  as  from  now, we  have  X  consisting  of  just  two  components, and  then  we  have  one,  two,  three,  four,  five. You  have  five  basis  functions  over  here. Five  basis  function. So  we  have  51  is  one, 52  is  x  one, 53  is  x254  is  x  one  square, 55  is  X  two  squared. So  you  can  write  down  your  design  metrics. Yeah.  The  notation  may  do  a bit  tedious  over  here  because  we are  using  x1x2  to represent  different  data  points,  right? Now  your  training  data  has  n  data  points. So  the  first  data  point  is  X  one, and  then  the  component  is  called  x11. S11  s12,  n  is  the  component  is  n1s2. So  I  hope. You  have  to  get  used  to  it. This  notation  sometimes  can  be  confusing, but  once  you  get  used  to  it. The  first  row  would  be  like all  the  x  one,  x  one  something, the  first  data  point, and  then  the  columns  are all  the  different  basis  functions. That's  your  design  metrics and  once  you  have  the  design  metric, you  can  just  put  in  the  formula. Of  course,  in  your  psychic  learn. Usually  people  will  just  call Psych  learn  the  Python  package. Everything  is implemented  in  the  psychic  learn. Especially,  you  don't  want  to  try  to implement  the  matrix  inverse  yourself  because this  is  quite  sensitive to  slight  perturbations  in  the  design  matrix. There  are  ways  people  have  come  up  with numerical  procedures  and  ways to  make  it  more  robust. And  then  you  can  add some  regularization  term  to make  it  more  robust  as  well. So  basically,  The  recommendation is  just  to  call  the  Psych  learn  function, right  to  get  the  answer. Don't  try  to  implement  yourself. Okay.  But  of  course, you  need  to  know  how  to create  the  design  matrics because  the  Psych  learn won't  know  what  is  the  basis function  they  are  choosing,  right. So  you  have  to  specify what's  the  basis  function, the  design  matrix  so  that then  you  can  call  the  function  accordingly. Okay.  Let's  try  some  questions. Okay. By  definition,  linear  regression means  the  parameters,  right? We're  talking  about the  parameters  being  linear. As  your  model  is  linear  in  the  parameters. Okay. So  I  guess  this  question, we  didn't  specify  everything  in  detail, but  I  hope  all  of  you  understand. The  Ws  are  the  parameters. The  as  input  variables. The  y  is  the  response. So  you  can  choose  more  than  one  answer, choose  all  the  linear  regression  models. Okay.  So  we  do  add  the  first  one. So  clearly,  this  is  Dine,  right? Dinar  in  terms  of  all  the. Your  basis  function  here  is  one, one,  and  then  two. The  second  one.  You  can see  this  is  not  linear  anymore. This  is  X  one  to  the  two. So  it's  not  linear  in these  are  parameter,  right. This  is  in  fact exponente,  right  this  parameter. So  this  is  not  a  linear  regression  problem. So  two  is  no. How  about  three?  Three  is  yes, you  can  check  all  the  W. These  are  all  linear  functions  of  W, regardless  of  whether  the, how  you  transform  the  X  the  other  matter. So  three  is  linear.  Linear  regression. The  fourth  one  is  also  linear. 01,  are  linear  in  terms  of  Ws. These  are  the  basics  function  transform. So  it  doesn't  matter. So  you  can  be  highly  non  linear,  for  the  X. But  as  long  as  the  Ws are  linear  functions,  then  we  are  okay. The  right  answers  will be  one,  three,  and  four. Next. Okay.  So  I  think  we  have a  overwhelming  favorite  answer  over  here. You  can  see  in  this  model, your  basis  functions  are  basic  one, as  one  square  and  log  at  two  square,  right. So  your  design  metrics  are evaluated  each  column  corresponds to  one  basis  function, each  corresponds  to  one  data  point. So  obviously, the  first  one  is  not  correct,  right? The  basis  functions  are  not  even  correct. The  second  one  is  also  not  correct. We  are  basically  looking  at we  want  the  design  metrics. So  you  shouldn't  have  the  Ws  inside. The  Ws  are  the  parameters that  we  are  trying  to  learn,  right. So  the  design  metric  will  only contain  the  data  the  values  from  the  data. Then  the  third  one  will  be  answered. So  you  can  see  the  first  column corresponds  to  the  first  basis  function  one, and  then  you  have  the  first  component  square and  the  lock  of  the  second  component. Okay.  So  I  think  that's the  last  question  here. Is  everybody  okay.  Any  questions? Okay.  I  hope  I. So  I  see  four  confusions,  but  no  questions. But  I  hope  I  clarify  any  of  your  confusions. Yeah. Please,  anything  your  que  in  chat. Yeah.  Okay.  Let's  see. Okay.  So  now  we have  We  are  training  the  model. We  find  the  ML  estimate. We  want  to  know  how  well  we  generalize. Now  I  give  you  some  new data  you  haven't  seen  before. We  want  to  apply  it  to  this new  data  in  the  testing  part. How  to  tell  whether your  model  is  good  or  bad. One  criteria  commonly  used is  called  the  residual  sum  of  squares,  RSS. Basically,  you  can  see  it  is  very  natural. This  is  the  Y  A  is the  one  that  you  use  a  model  to  predict, and  then  we  just  see  how  far  away, we  are  from  the  actual  value.  Okay. Yeah. Then  you  have  the  root  mean  square  error. Roman  square,  basically  you normalize  it  by  n, the  number  of  data  points. This  will  give  you  an  average and  then  we'll  take  the  square  root. That's  why  it's  called  root  mean  square  means means  that  you  are  taking  average  over  here. A  sum.  Root  mean  square  error. Then  we  have  this  co  efficient  or determination  of  the  r  square  value. R  square  is  defined  to  be one  minus  the  residual  sum  of squares  divided  by  this  thing ca  the  total  sum  of  squares. Total  sum  of  squares, Basically  is  trying  to  measure  what  is the  empirical  variance  of  the  data. You  can  see  that  here,  we  are basically  estimating  what  is  the  variance inside  the  data  itself regardless  of  whatever  model you  are  applying. I  give  you  some  data  itself  is  random,  right? He  has  some  variances  inside. So  I'm  going  to  compute  the  mean  of  the  data, the  y  values  inside  the  data. And  then  you  can  see  that  this  guy  is basically  looking  at the  empirical  version  of  the  variance. Y  minus  the  mean,  hit  the  sum. If  you  divide  by  n  at  the  top  and n  at  the  numerator  and  ng  at  the  bottom, right  you  are  taking  the  average,  right? If  you  take  the  average,  then, this  will  be  the  amblcal estimate  of  the  variance. Okay.  Here  we  don't  divide  by  n. Top  important  is  the  same,  right. Whether  you  divide  by  n,  top important  right  because  it  will  cancel  out. Okay.  So  this  is  T.  You can  see  that  if  my residual  sum  of  squares, if  this  is  very  small. For  example,  in  the  strin  case  is  zero, then  my  R  square  will  be  equal  to  one. This  is  the  best  R square  value  that  you  can  have. Basically  The  RSS  is basically  what  is  still  left, right  after  you  have  apply  the  model  to  it. This  is  the  amount  this is  the  so  called the  sum  of  square  or  the  variation, the  square  variation  that  is  still  left that  is  still  left  out  after you  have  applied  the  model. This  is  the  part  that  is not  captured  inside  the  model. This  R  is  basically  measuring  the  amount  of variance  that  is  being explained  by  the  model, normalized  by  the  total  variance. A  higher  r  square means  you  have  a  better  fit, your  model  is  able  to  explain all  the  variation  moves or  the  variation  inside  your  data. On  the  other  hand,  if  let's say  I  use  a  very  simple  model, I  let  the  model  to be  always  output  the  mean  of  the  data. That  means  I  don't  even  train  the  model. I  assume  that  whatever  input  you  give  me, I'm  going  to  tell  you  that it's  the  mean  of  the  data. IP,  I  can  compute  just take  the  average  of  all  the  training  data. In  this  case,  if  you  apply, you  le  a  y, this  Yi,  the  prediion, YI  equals  to  y  you  plt  in. You  can  see  that  the  R  S  S is  equals  to  the  T  S  S, and  then  your  R  square  will  equals  to  zero. R  square  that  is  close  to  zero  means is  a  very  poor  model, as  poor  as  does the  constant  model.  You  take  the  mean. And  you  can  in  fact have  R  square  less  than  zero. Don't  be  fooled  by  the  notation. Although  we  call  it  r  square, you  may  think  that  it's bigger  or  equals  to  zero, but  it  can  be  less  than  zero. The  R  square  here  is  a  name. It's  not  a  math  symbol.  It's  just  a  name. The  R  square  can  actually  be  less  than  zero, which  means  that  your  model  is  even worse  than  the  constant  prediction. Your  model  is  so  bad that  is  giving  you  something that  introduce  more  variation inside  the  data  than  trying  to explain  away  the  variation. Okay. Yeah.  So  there's  an  example, uputer  notebook  here. Okay. So  you  can  get  this  from  the  NQ  Ln. How  do  I?  Okay.  Anyway.  Okay.  So  I  hope you  can  see. Okay. I'm  not  going  to  go  through  the  code. For  those  of  you  who  are  interested, you  can  take  a  look  basically  nowadays, I  don't  feel  that  going  through code  is  because now  your  AI  can generate  the  code  easily  for  you  right. You  just  need  to  understand  at a  high  level  what  the  code  is  doing. We  can  see  here.  Okay,  this  is  a  example is  basically  generating  the  synthetic  data. And  then  we  are  doing some  rescaling  of  the  data.  Okay. So  the  code  here is  fine  to  fit  different polynomial  functions. Different  basically  we're  going to  use  the  polynomial  terms, the  x  que  x  Q and  all  these  as  your  basis  function. Inside  this  linear  regression. Now  the  question  is, What  is  the  degree  of  the  polynomial,  right? So  I  stop  at  quadratic  terms or  I  go  to  cubic  terms  and  so  on, or  even  adds  to  power  20. We  use  a  follow  to  test  it  out. The  actual  data,  the  synthetic  data is  using  quadratic. So  the  Y  is  a  quadratic  function  of  the  ads. But  we  assume  we  don't  snow  so  here, you  see  we  are  15 different  degree  polynomial  to e.  And  you  can see  this  is  the  train  and  test  RMS. Or  MSC,  sorry,  not  RMS  mean  square  error. The  train  one,  you can  see  it  always  going  down. But  the  test  one,  at  some  point, it  actually  becomes  worse. Because  the  actual  data  is  actually generated  using  quadratic  square up  to  order  two. But  you  can  see  the  training data  When  you  train  the  model, if  you  use  a  higher  degree, you  are  actually  getting  better. But  then  the  testing  data is  the  MS  is  getting  worse. This  is  an  example  of  overfitting. Although  your  model  is  can capture  the  training  data  very  well, but  then  when  you  do  it  on  the  testing  data, it  actually  gives  you  worth  performance. Basically,  your  model  is  overfitting  to the  training  data  is memorizing  the  training  data instead  of  coming  out with  something  that's  useful  that can  be  generalized  to  the  testing  data. Okay.  This  some  visualization  examples. This  is  for  degree  one,  degree one  is  just  a  straight  line, and  this  is  the  training  data. This  is  degree  two.  This  is  the  ground  truth. The  ground  truth  is  the  quadratic, you  can  see  the  feet. But  definitely  have  some  errors because  our  data  is  noisy. But  when  you're  doing  training, you  don't  know  that. That's  the  degree  three  is  going to  give  you  better  degrees  even  better. Degree  20.  You  can  see  that  degree 20  is  basically  the  polynom such  high  degree  that  is  able to  fit  every  training  data  almost  exactly. That's  why  your  M  is  almost  zero. You  can  fit  all  the  data  almost  exactly. But  then  when  it  comes  to  the  testing  data, it  comes  to  testing,  it  becomes  very bad  because  the  generalization  is  bad. I  see  that  this  is  the  error, the  residue  error  for degree  20  is  almost  zero. This  is  the  R  square.  You  can compute  square  on  both  train  and  test. Basically  rule  or  um, some  guideline  is  that  when you  train  your  model, you  should  always  compare  your  R  square  value between  the  t  square  value as  well  as  your  test  R  square  value. This  will  help  you  to see  whether  your  model is  over  fitting  or  not. So  your  square  value  should  be  the same  similar  on  both  train  and  test. This  is  a  train  one, and  this  is  your  test  one,  right. Okay.  You  can  see  that  the  degree  two, the  train  is  about  0.871. The  test  is  0.813. But  once  you  go  to  degree, your  are  on  the  train  is become  very  good,  0.906. But  on  the  test,  it  actually dropped  become  0.8  instead of  drop  0.813,  drop  slightly,  0.8. If  you  go  on  to higher  and  higher  degree  20,  degree  20, train,  the  square  on the  train  is  almost  one  is  basically  one, and  then  on  your  test,  is  actually  negative. This  is  actually  worse than  the  constant  prediction. Okay.  Make  sure  when you  choose  your  model  architecture, you  need  to  be  also trade  off  between the  complexity  of  the  model. This  is  the  thing  that we  don't  cover  in  this  course. Basically,  when we  choose  a  model  architecture, we  need  to  balance  between the  complexity  of  the  model and  the  performance  of  the  model. If  you  go  and  take  some  more advanced  machine  learning  course, you  will  learn  about  some of  these  criteria  on how  to  optimize  your model  architecture  choices. Okay.  Okay,  so  we  are  running  a  bit  late. But  okay,  let's  move on  to  the  next  one,  right? So  we  talked  about  MLE, but  now  we  We  can actually  what  happens  in the  case  when  you have  additional  information. We  can  actually  do  this  thing called  the  posterior  distribution. So  the  posterior  distribution  of  data given  the  training  data  D.  If  you  recall, this  is  according  to  B, this  can  be  written  as the  ho  multiplied  by the  prior  distribution  of  data. So  this  is  the  Lightho  this  is  p. In  the  MAP  approach, we  are  going  to  maximize  the  posterior. We're  going  to  maximize the  posterior  of  data given  the  training  data  that  you  see. We're  going  to  maximize  this. This  basic  by  doing  this, this  allow  us  to  introduce  the  pi. For  example,  you  are  the  system  designer, you  know,  what  system  you're  designing. You  know  that  this  parameter  values can  only  be  in  a  certain  range. You  are  going  to  put  the  pi  with high  high  PDF  values on  the  range  that  you think  the  parameter  data  should  be  in. This  will  give  the  model  the  training additional  outside  information  other than  the  training  data  that  you  have. This  is  one  way  to  inject  more  information. If  you  do  at  this,  if  you  take the  log,  you  take  the  log, this  one  will  just  a  log  likelihood  plus the  log  we  have the  log  likelihood  here.  This  is. You  can  see  previously, we  just  maximize  this  term, but  now  we  add  another  term  to  it, so  we  have  to  maximize  the  whole  thing. Okay.  So  there's  a  constant  right because  this  is  proportional. Anyway,  the  constant  doesn't  matter. Okay.  One  example  over  here, this  is  the  Bernui  example that  we  saw  before,  right? So  now  we  have  the  pr. So  we  have  the  likelihood  as  before. This  was  your  likelihood  function, and  I  previously, we  don't  have  any  additional  information. So  with  us  maximize  the  likelihood, we  can  find  the  ML  estimated. But  now  let's  say  you have  additional  information, you  believe  that  the  beta  is  most  likely  to be  in  certain  range,  have  certain  value. We  are  going  to  impose  a  beta  distribution, a  beta  distribution  with  Pameters,  A  and  B. If  you've  forgotten  what the  beta  distribution  looks like,  go  back  to  week  one, basically  there's  a  plot  that  shows  you  for different  values  of  A  and B,  what  it  looks  like. So  you  can  then  choose  your  A  and  B accordingly  to  what  belief that  you  have  from  the  data. Here  we  are  now  trying  to find  the  MAP  estimate. So  we  can  to  find  the  lot  posterior  is the  likelihood  plus  the  lot py  we  can  just  plug  everything  in. Okay.  So  you  have  a  lot of  So  this  part  is  the  same  as  before. But  now  you  have  this  Beta,  right. Beta  Beta  is  this  what's that  theta  A  minus one  minus  theta  B  minus  one. Yeah.  So  to  be y  to  be  absolutely correct,  plus  the  constant. So  as  before,  we  can  simplify  it. Combine  everything  together. Okay.  Then  we  do  the  same  thing  as  before. We  di  differentiate  with respect  to  data,  right. Set  to  o. Then  you  can  solve  this  equation eventually  after  some  simplification,  right? You  will  get  the  MAP  estimate. So  it's  given  by  O. We  can  see  how  it  differs. Previously,  in  the  MLE, the  ML  estimate  is  just  one  over  n. Now  because  of  your  prior  information, you  have  added  depending on  how  you  choose  the  A, so  you  will  affect  this  part  and  the  B  also, you  will  affect  the  bottom, both  the  bottom  and  top. These  are  the  basic  the  hyperars, depending  on  how  you  choose your  prior  distribution  that  will  basically affect  what's  the  outcome of  your  MAP  estimate? Okay. So  classification. So  can  also  think  of classification  in  this  example, if  you  are  trying  to  minimize the  classification  error, this  is  actually  a  MAP  estimate. Of  the  labor  y  given  the  facial  vector. Previously,  we'll  talk  about  the  ML to  do  classification, that  will  correspond  to the  cross  entropy  loss. In  this  case,  the  MAP  mate  will correspond  to  the  error probability  error  probily. We  are  trying  to  minimize the  error  probability  here. Basically,  you  can  think  of  classification as  in  general, you  have  a  facial  vector. That  you  imagine  it  is  in  some  space. To  do  classification,  what  we  are  really doing  is  to  partition this  space  into  different  parts. And  then  for  each  region, we  are  going  to  say  that  this is  correspond  to  y, y  equals  one,  say  y  equals  two, y  equals  three,  and  so  on. So  classification  in general,  you  can  think  of  this  way. We  are  ready  actually  partitioning the  whole  input  space  into  different  parts, and  then  each  part  we  assign a  labor  that  is  our  prediction. Okay. So  you  can  denote  this  as  a  Delta. This  is  a  function.  I  give  you  a  input. So  that  means  my  Delta  is  going  to  be equals  to  one  on  this  vision, right  so  it's  going  to  be  equals  to some  estimate  your  Y  is  your  Delta. Or  rather  depends  on  if  equals  to  one, if  X  is  say  in certain  vision  sion  one  equals  to  two, if  X  is  in  certain  vision  two  and  so. So  basically  define  it  this  way. In  order  to minimize  the  classification  error. So  what's  the  classification  error? The  classification  error  is basically  the  probability. I  give  you  the  observation  ads. This  is  the  probability  of  that  your  labor, true  label  is  equals  to  one. When  will  you  make  an  error? You  will  make  an  error  when the  true  labor  is  not equal  to  your  Delta  a  side. You  Delta  ad  is  the  predicted  label. I'm  going  to  have  an  error  if  my  y, the  true  one  is  not  the  Delta  x. That's  why  your  classification  error is  just  a  summation  over all  the  y  values  that is  not  equal  to  Delta  x. In  other  words,  it  is  just  one  minus. The  probability  that  indeed  this is  my  true  label is  indeed  equals  to  the  predictor  one. This  is  the  predictor. Okay.  So  Delta  is  the  predicted  labor. They  the  true  labor is  equal  to  a  predicated  label, then  there's  no  error,  right? So  that's  why  the  classification  error, right? This  is  called  classification  error. It's  one  minus  the correct  prediction  probability. If  we  are  trying  to minimize  this  classification  error, which  means  that  we  are  trying to  maximize  this  guy. We  want  to  minimize,  right? We  want  to  minimize. We  can  see  one  minus  this  guy. That  means  it's  the  same  as maximizing  But  you  can  see  what  is  this  guy? This  is  basically  the  posterior. This  is  the  posterior  probability of  of  this  y  given  ads. In  order  to  maximize  this  procedure, basically,  we're  trying  to maximize  the  procedure. So  we  need  to  choose  the  Delta  add  side  that maximizes  that  makes this  procedure  as  big  as  possible. So  that's  why  this  is  exactly  the  MAP.  Okay. Another  example  here  is the  so  called  Naive  based  classifier. In  this  case,  we  are  given  all  these  kind  of images  where  you  have a  handwritten  digit  set, and  basically  you  want  a  machine learning  model  that  is able  to  tell  you  what  is the  true  digit  that  is  written? What  is  the  digit  that  is written  in  each  of  these  images. This  is  one  of the  easiest  classification  data set  that  probably  you  will  encounter, this  is  the  data  set. One  of  the  earlier  machine learning  classification  data  set. Here  we'll  go  use  a  very  simple  model. Of  course,  now  the  ME  data set  using  your  CNN, you  can  reach  accuracy of  I  think  more  than  nine  9%. But  in  the  second  half of  this  course,  we  will  do  that. But  let's  consider  a  very  simple  one. It's  called  a  NE  based  model. So  you  can  think  of  each  image as  the  input  v,  the  input. Each  image,  you  can  step  it into  a  All  the  pizzel, you  just  put  inside  a  facial  vector, stack  up  all  the  pizzel  values. Assuming  the  are  d  of  them, so  x  one  to  x d.  We're  going  to make  a  very  simple  assumption. If  I  know  what  is  the  label  class? What  is  the  class  label? I  tell  you  the  value  of  y.  I  tell  you  that this  picture  is  four,  is  digit  four. Then  I'm  going  to  assume  that  the  components, the  pizzel  values  are actually  independent  of  each  other. We  can  see  that  this  is  a  very so  simplistic  or  naive  assumption. In  real  life  is  not  like  that. If  this  is  I  tell  you  it's  a  digit  four, you  still  expect  that  the  pizzel  value so  somehow  be  related  to  each  other. Otherwise,  it  won't  be. They  give  you  the  digit  four. But  of  course  here,  we're  going to  assume  something  very  naive. That's  why  it's  called  naive,  naive  based. A  very  simple  model  we  just  assume  it  is independent  Using  this  model, then  we  are  basically trying  to  train  the  data  values. The  data  is  basically. In  this  MIS  data  set, the  pixels  are  plus  one  or  minus  one. It  is  a  binary  image  binary  image. The  data,  all  these  data  values are  probabilities  that  is  equals  to  one. The  data  is  the  probability of  it  equals  to  one  and  one minus  data  is  equal to  the  probability  of  it  being  minus  one. Of  course,  you  have  many  data, the  D  and  C  can  be  two  different  values. The  D  here  corresponds to  different  components. So  each  component  will give  you  a  different  data, and  then  the  C  corresponds  to  the  class. For  each  class,  we  also  have  different  datas. You  can  see  that  this  model has  many  parameters  inside, and  the  main  assumption is  the  independence  assumption, which  is  naive  in  a  sense. But  even  with  this  naive  assumption,  Yeah. Even  with  this  naive  assumption, you  can  use  the  MAP,  to  estimate. Here,  we  are  going  to  assume that  the  what's  that? We  are  going  to  impose some  prior  probability  for the  y,  the  class  table. Most  of  the  time  we'll  just assume  it's  uniform. We  basically  unless  you have  some  additional  information, so  we're  going  to  assume the  Pi  would  be just  the  uniform  distribution. Then  if  you  do  that,  though these  are  very  simple  model, you  can  actually  get  good  accuracy, e  percent. Of  course,  it's  now  close  to  nowadays, the  state  of  the  99.9  something  percent. Yeah. But  still  you  can  see this  naive  based  approach  is still  giving  you  something  quite  good, 84%,  even  though  it's  naive. There  are  some  links  here  you  can  try  out. Try  play  around  with this  call  that  put  the  notebook. That's  the  last  example. Finally,  in  summary,  what  we  have  learned today  is  basically  all  about  basic  influence. We  talk  about  the  MLE. MLE  as  the  basic  technique to  find  to  optimize for  your  parameter  weights. We  introduce  the  MAP  is  in the  case  where  you have  some  additional  information, you  can  come  up  with some  p  distribution for  the  parameter  weights. Then  you  can  put  that  inside, then  you  can  get  the  MAP. And  yeah,  and  that's basically  some  practice  problems  for  you. Okay.  So  last  thing,  any  questions? Let  me  see.  Ah. The  question  is  for  the  Din  region, can  we  change  the  basis  of  Y instead  of  five  weights. Of  course,  you  can  always  come  out  with a  model  where  you  transform  the  y  first. But  of  course  then the  transformation  has to  be  something  that  is  known. Instead  of  trying  to  learn  a  model  of  Y, maybe  you  are  trying  to  learn  lot  of  y, a  model  of  lot  Y.  That's  possible. But  of  co  you  need  to  know  what  is the  transformation  that  you  are going  to  apply  beforehand. It's  quite  common  in  economics, people  like  to  learn  of  Y  instead  of  y. But  there  isn't  so called  basic  functions  for  Y  unless  you are  talking  about  having multiple  regression  models,  right.  Okay. Okay.  Any  other  things? Okay,  good.  Then  we'll  end here  today  and  I'll  see  you  next  week. Thank  you.  Thank  you.  Thank  you.
