God  even  every  one.  We  start  class. In  the  last  week,  actually  we  started some  basic  concept  of  mache, and  we  know  a  machen  process consists  of  three  paths. The  first  part  is  data. Then  the  abstraction  with  model, and  then  we  apply the  model  to  future  data  to  test  data. These  are  the  paths  mach  system. Machine  starts  from  data. Actually  I  mentioned  a  few  times  that the  quality  of  the  data  directly determine  the  quality  of  the  model  and  then at  the  reliability  of  quality  of the  predications  based  on  the  model. Machina  is  not  so  straight  forward  as some  of  you  maybe  though  thought. Get  some  data,  put  into  the  open  source  code, and  like  linear  package, and  then  get  a  model. I  so  straightforward, and  at  after  we  collect  the  data, actually  we  must  carefully  prepare the  data  and  for  a  machine. So  These  are  the  machine  learning  activities. These  are  the  data  preparation  activities. Firstly,  need  to  understand the  type  of  the  data. Type  of  the  data.  Later  we  will  see  data could  have  different  type of  a  data  set could  have  different  type  of  features. For  some  models,  they require  like  the  data  should  be  continuous, then  follow  normal  distribution. But  if  the  data  doe  not satisfy  the  requirement, then  the  performance  could  detail  very  much. Given  a  data  set,  we must  explore  and  the  data  types. Then  based  on  the  data  type, actually  we  can  select some  candidate  model  or  linear  organ. They  don't  actually  require the  feature continuous  and  follow  normal  distributions. We  know  some  models  in the  next  week  when  we  start pan  classification  design  p classified  design  or  linear. We  will  know  at,  we  always  met some  assumptions  for the  data  type  in  the  model. Based  on  this  knowledge  of  the  data  type, in  the  data  set  through  this  exploation, actually  we  can  select the  suitable  model  form  and also  the  linear  gum for  this  specific  data  set. This  is  first  s  the  data  type. Then  we  also  explore the  data  to  answer the  nature  and  the  qualities. Through  this  provision,  we  understand actually  what  is  the  data and  what's  the  problem? What  is  the  quality  of  the  data? Some  data  could  be  very  noisy and  you  and  within the  class  actually  the big  spread  of  the  data. This  actually  impo  difficulties on  the  mach  algorithm, and  also  to  the  model. And  plow  the  relationship among  the  data  elements. For  example,  interfute  relationship. I  mentioned  a  few  times about  the  overfitting. Be  in  menu,  overfitting  is a  very  serious  issue  and  normally  in  general, more  complex  models  are more  likely  overfit  data. Once  the  model  overfit  the  in  data, then  it's  a  generalization  capability  on the  testing  future  data  could  be  very  bad. In  practice,  we  always  try  our  best to  address  this  fiction  problem. Of  course,  how  to  do  that.  Of  course, there  are  many  ways  to  avoid the  pic  problem  like increased  the  narrow  training  samples. Then  I  think  the  very  important  method  is the  reduction  the  complexity  of  the  models. And  the  complexity  of the  models  actually  depends  on  the  model  form and  also  how  many  variables you  use  in  the  model. If  we  can  explore  the relationship  between  the  features, we  can  identify some  strongly  correlated  features, then  we  can  remove some  redundant  features  from  the  model. Also  through  the  inion of  the  correlation,  for  example, between  the  target  variable  and  the  features. We  can  also  identify the  insignificant  or  useless  features. If  the  correlation  between the  one  feature  and  also the  target  variable  is  trivial. That  means  this  feature  basically  is  useless. Then  we  should  exclude  it  from  the  model. Through  this  in  exploration, we  can  identify  maybe  strongly severely  correlating features  or  redundant  features. We  can  also  identify  some  irrelevant, insignificant  or  usually  the  features. Then  we  can  remove  these  features  from the  model  to  reduce the  complexity  of  the  model. Then  we  can  improve the  generalization  capability  of  the  model. Because  model  with  reduced  complexity is  less  likely  overfit  train  data. This  is  I  think  the  ispion. Give  data  set,  we  must  do such  espion  this  can be  done  through  the  so  fi  or  fathe  selection. Later  we  will  talk  about  this. Also  find  the  potential  issues  in the  data  there  are  two  main  issues. One  is  O.  Some  of  the  values are  ordinarily  high  or  is  ordinarily  low. The  most  likely  are  out. How  to  address  outliers. Also  sometimes  some  of the  features  don't  have  values. These  are  the  mission  values. Mission  value  problem  and the  problem  are  commonly seen  issues  in  the  data  set. We  must  address  these  two  issues to  improve  the  quality  of  the  training  data. And  so  that  at  high  quality  of  model  could be  learned  from  the  high  quality  of  data. The  quality  of  data  directly determine  the  quality  of  the  model. Also,  we  may  need to  perform  some  perpleeions. The  purple  session  here  include a  normalization  of  scaling,  normally  scaling. The  features  could  have  very big  difference  in  the  values. For  example,  for  one  feature, the  value  could  be  very  small. For  example,  your  GPE,  GP  3.4  point. Then  if  view  of  the  body  weight, this  is  another  feature. 65  G,  even  nine  G  value  are  very  big. If  these  features  with very  different  scales  are  used together  in  some  classifiers, and  then  we  can  have  some  issued  problems. Later  we  will  explain  this  further. Through  the  presion,  actually  we  can  actually scale  the  data  to  a  similar  range, and  also  we  can  reduce the  dominoites  of  the  data. These  are  all  the  press. These  are  all  the  activities in  the  data  preparation  stage. Once  the  data  is  prepared, then  we  can  start  the  ma learn  the  model  len  part. Yeah,  often  the  input  data, we  will  be  dividing  the  two  part  or  path, input  the  trial  data  testing  data. Or  sometimes  we  divide the  data  into  three  paths, training  and  validation,  then  testing. Valid  data  is  normally used  to  determine  some  harper  parameters. When  we  start  the  panel  classifies, we  will  know  atrial classified  often  have  some  parameters, which  are  called  hyper  parameters. These  parameter  are  not  estimated from  the  train  data. Instead  before  the  linual  start into  set  a  value. But  which  value  is  suitable,  nobody  knows. We  need  to  determine  the  suit  value using  the  SC  validation  data. The  data  could  be  divided  in two  paths  train  testing, no  train  validation  test. Validation  is  used  to determine  the  hyper  parameters. Train  data  is  used  to estimate  the  parameters  in  the  model. Okay.  So  these  are  yeah. So  this  are  basically  yeah. Once  the  model  is  trained, how  about  this  performance, and  we  need  to  evaluate  the  performance. I  think  this  course  will  also  give  you a  systematic  introduction about  the  model  evaluation. What  procedures  we  should  use to  evaluate  the  performance  model, What  metric  we  could use  actually  to  measure  the  performance, like  accuracy  area, precision,  recall  F  score, like  all  the  site of  metric  we  can  use  to evaluate  the  performance.  Model. This  is  the  data  preparation  and also  the  activities  after the  data  is  prepared. N,  we  have  look  of  the  first  question. The  data  types. Just  now  we  list  the  data  pion  activities. Actually,  the  first  one  to  si  the  data  types. Now  we  look  at  the  first  the  data  types. We  first  data  set. Data  set  is  the  collection of  related  information  records. This  diagram  just  shows  a  a student  data  set  is  another  data  set. A  data  set  is  a  collection  of  information. Here's  a  student  performance  data  set. And  then  this  is  simply  the  student  data  set. In  the  data  set,  normally, a  at  rule  denotes  assample. This  is  a  convention  of  data  representation. I  machine,  a  rule the  data  set  represent  asample. One  sample.  Here,  one,  two, three,  four,  f,  six, we  have  six  rules. Actually  we  have  six  samples  here. In  the  data  set, each  column  actually  is a  facial  or  attribute. In  the  data  set  actually we  have  multiple  columns. The  first  column  is a  number,  metric  relation  number. Then  the  second  column  The  result  of  maths, the  column  results  of  size, and  also  the  percentage  percentile, what  is  the  position  in the  whole  batch  in  the  whole  cohort. So  the  percentile  percentage. These  are  the  four  columns that  means  that  each  sample  is represented  by  four  attributes. In  other  words,  at  each  sample is  represented  by  a  four  dimensional  vector. And  each  feature  is one  element  in  the  vector. L  rule  number,  nos, math,  size,  and  percentage. The  columns,  either  the  I said  the  attributes  tribes. Also  have  other  names,  other  terms. Become  son,  this  state is  studied  in  different  field  like  in Fst  computer  size,  normally  like  tribes. If  you  read  papers  from  those  like electrical  engineering  or  whatever normally  the  co  pattern  recognition, pa  classification,  then  the  core  features. Then  statistics  because  they also  do  modeling  and  fit  the  model. To  the  data.  Then  the  at  attributes are  called  variables. These  terms  are  used interchangeably  attribute  feature, or  at  the  variables. These  are  the  different  names. Each  column  correspond  to one  feature  or  attribute  of  variable. Here  we  have  four  features. Four  feature,  that  means  each  sample is  represented  by  a  four  dominal  vector, and  each  element  describe one  characteristic  of the  sample.  Rule  number. These  are  characteristic  of  a  sample, result  of  the  result  of the  size  percentile  percentage. Each  of  the  element  in  the  vector  or  each  of the  feature  actually  describe one  characteristic  of  the  sample. These  are  the  data  set and  also  the  features,  the  features. And  for  the  features  for  each  feature, here  we  also  observe  sum  results, sum  results,  rule  number,  math, actually  science,  percentile  percentage. Then  previously,  we  have gender,  male,  female,  H. We  also  name  we  rule  number. This  city  I  set. Actually,  the  data, if  you  look  at  the  one  specific  feature, we  can  observe  at, there  are  two  types  of  data. The  first  time  is  called qualitative  data,  qualitative. Then  the  second  time  is  called  quantitative. There  are  two  types, qualitative  and  quantitative. For  the  quantitative  qualitative  data provides  the  information  about  the  quit  or information  which  cannot  be  measured. Normally  data  cannot  be  measured. In  you  measure  the  temperature  of  the  room, you  measure  the  length  from this  side  to  another  side. Qualitative  data  is  about  the  quality. This  information  normally  cannot  be  measured. This  is  called  qualitative  data. Some  examples  here,  performance  of  a  student, good,  or  very  good  or  bad. This  could  be  for  one  know  performance, we  can  have  these  values  like  good, very  good  or  bad, very  bad  this  results. This  is  feature  performance here  is  a  qualitative  data. Describe  the  quality. And  also  the  rule  number now  also  cannot  be  measured. These  are  quality  data. Quantitative  data  is also  called  categorical  data. I  think  in  mache,  also the  people  from  different  areas. They  all  have  their  own  convention of  the  terminologies. Qualitative  data  is  also called  a  categorical  data. Later  on,  we  also  maybe da  called  discrete  data  discrete. Normally,  for  the  qualitative  data, for  a  quantity  feature  and the  possible  values  is  very  limited. Possible  value  limited, just  like  a  performance. Only  a  bad  and  good  or  very  bad  valuable, a  few  possible  values. It's  my  category. This  is  a  qualitative  data. Under  this  cor,  quality  of  data, we  can  further  divide  them into  two  as  sumb  categories. One  is  called  nominal  data. Another  is  ordinal  data,  nominal. Here,  nominal  data  is one  which  has  no  numerical  value, but  a  named  value. Of  course  at  data  set, this  could  also  be  a numerical  value  could  be  assigned. Like  blood  pressure, a  blood  blood  group,  A  B  and  O. These  are  the  blood  groups. We  use  a  letter  to  denote  a  group. This  is  not  a  numerical  value. But  of  course  sometimes  need a  computer  still  numerical value  assigned  to  them. We  need  to  look  at  at  the  nature  of  the  data. No  just  based  on  the  value  to  judge  whether it  is  no  nominal. Then  another  example  is  nationality. Nationality. Also  like  gender  male,  female. Quite  often  we  are  familiar  with continuous  feature  like  a  temperature. One  temperature  is  higher  than one  value  is  higher  than  another  value. Know  the  length  from here  to  here,  the  distant, the  length  is  longer than  another  one  greater  than  another  value. But  for  the  nominal,  there  are  no  such  order. Nationality.  Just  actually the  different  values just  show  they  are  different. Even  we  use  merical  values to  represent,  for  example, one  represent  India  and  two  represent maybe  like  China and  three  represent  Singapore. One,  two,  three,  this 123  just  shows  or  they  take  different  values. It  does  not  mean  three  is  greater than  two,  two  is  greater  than  one. This  is  the  nominal  data. Gender,  also  gender,  male  or  female. For  nominal  data, mathematical  operations cannot  be  performed  like no  preliminary basic  mathematic  operations  like  addition, subtraction,  minus  minus  or is  a  glication  division. All  these  mathematic  operations cannot  be  performed. Assumption.  Male  is  F, a  female  F.  The  summit  of  the  two  values. What's  the  meaning?  Even  you  use a  numerical  value  to  represent. Another  minus  one  plus 10,  what  does  that  mean? For  nominal  data,  we  cannot perform  this  trial  operations. I  think  this  is  very  important  because normally  we  will  perform  some prepsion  of  the  data. What  kind  of  operation  we  can  perform. Normally  in  the  classified  design, we  always  need  to  perform  some  operations  on the  data,  model,  mamal  equation. Certainly  we  need  to  perform  operations. But  from  here  we  know  if  the  data  is  nominal, we  cannot  perform  this  very  basic  operations. Then  the  main  value  These  are  mean  variance. Later,  we  will  talk  about  the  car  data, normally  see  the  central  tendency, the  mean  value,  the  spare  of  the  data, and  the  variance  of  snd  evens. Here,  because  we  cannot  calcemion, then  we  cannot  have  the  mean  value. We  also  cannot  have  the standard  vans  or  variance. This  for  the  nominal  data. Nominal.  I  think  we want  to  of  course  based  on definition  here  we  see  nominal  data is  a  one  with  no  numerical  value. You  certainly  you  cannot perform  minimal  operation  on  these  values. But  sometimes  of  course  already  mentioned, we  will  use  numerical  value to  represent  male. One  to  represent  male, then  another  numerical  value minus  one  to  represent  a  female. Although  we  use  mR  value  to represent  by  male  or  female. But  then  this  gender actually  is  a  nominal  feature, and  we  actually  should  not actually  perform  the  basic  operations. Female  represented  by  one, male  represent  by  minus  one, summation  is  zero.  What  does  this  mean? This  is  the  nominal  data. This  nominal  data  is under  the  qualitative  data. From  here,  you  can  also  see no  each  of  the  nationality,  right? This  feature  had very  limited  possible  values, maybe  in  the  world, maybe  like  200  countries. Maybe  around  that  value. That  means  if  nionalgy, we  can  have  200  possible  values. For  gender,  we  only  have  two  possible  values. For  blood  group,  we  only have  four  possible  values. This  s  of  data. Again,  from  the  examples, you  understand  the  possible  values  for this  feature  is  limited the  number  of  possible  values  limited. Just  a  few  values. This  is  the  nominal  data. Then  we  look  at  another  subcategory,  ordinal. The  ordinal  data  the  data  can  be  ordered. Just  now  we  see  a  male,  female,  blood  group, we  cannot  see  A  greater  than  B  blood  group  A, greater  than  B,  greater than  or  greater  than  A  B. Male  is  greater  than female  or  female  greater  than  me. We  cannot  order  them,  so  it's  nominal. For  the  seminal  category like  the  qualitative  data, and  for  some  of  the  features, actually  the  data  they  they  can order  like  customer  satisfaction, Hay  unhealthy. Like  grid,  A  B  C.  Of  the  exam, you  have  a  grid  and  for  each  course, A  plus  A  A  minus  b  plus  b  minus  b,  this  grid. At  this  can  be  ordered. We  know  A  is  better  than  B. B  better  than  C,  A  plus better  than  A  better  than  A  minus, better  than  B  plus,  better  than  B, better  than  C  b  minus. T  that  can  be  ordered.  Can  be  ordered. This  is  ordinal  data, and  also  another  example  like  hardness of  metal,  very  h  soft. This  can  be  ordered. Then  we  look  at  the  operations. For  ordinal  data,  again, we  cannot  perform  summation  addition, subtraction,  multiplication  or  division, we  cannot  calculate  the  main  values. Because  the  data  can  be ordered  from  small  can  be  ordered, then  we  can  find  the  median main  value  in  the  middle. You  order  them  right  to  get  a  sequence. We'll  look  at  what  is the  value  in  the  middle. This  is  a  median  value. For  ordinal  data  at, we  can  find  the  median  value. Media. But  we  cannot  find  the  no  mean  value. Of  course,  we  cannot  find the  vars  or  standard  vision. This  is  the  ordinal,  the  nominal  ordinal. They  all  under  the  category  of qualitative  data  or  categorical data  categorical. That  mean  the  ve  pose number  of  p  values  limited. For  this  kind  of  data, qualitative  data  or  categorical  data. No,  we  look  at  another  type. Quantitative,  then  another  times  of quantitative  quantitative, and  quantitative  data  can  be  measured. Quantitative  data  is  also termed  as  a  numeric  data. Just  now  we  see  a  categorical then  versus  the  numeric. Quantitative,  quantitative data  versus  the  quantitative  data. They  just  a  different  terms, but  they  mean  the  same  thing. Quantitative  and  also  the  numeric. This  quantitative  data  can be  further  divided  into  two  subtypes. One  is  called  interval  data. Another  is  a  ratio  data. For  interval  data, then  absolute  zero,  no  zero. So  for  the  date,  time, what  is,  at  the  zero  means. These  are  interval  data. Then  we  look  at  like  For  interval  data, addition  and  subtraction  are  possible. We  can  the  main  value and  we  can  also  the  divisions for  the  interval  data. But  for  interval  data, we  cannot  a  the  ratio  of  two  values. This  is  the  ratio  cannot  be  calculated. For  example,  the  date, the  date  or  the  time, this  class  starts  from  630. Then  we  also  know  it  ends  at  9:20. We  can  use  the  subtraction. 926  y,  so  it's  like  2  hours,  15  minutes. This  operation  can  be  performed. But  the  ratio  cannot  be  performed  at 9:30  or  9:20  P.M. Divided  by  6:30 P.M.  What's  the  meaning  of  that. The  ratio  cannot  be  performed here  in  the  inter  data. But  we  can  perform  like addition  or  subtraction. Another  type  of  the  numeric  data or  quantitative  data  is  the  ratio  data. Racial  data  has  a  zero  absolute  zero  and. Absolute  zero  is  available  for  ratio  data. We  know  absolute  zero what  is  the  date  of  absolute  zero? The  ratio  data  absolute  zero. You  measure  the  length, the  height  of  something  is  zero, zero,  that  means  just  the  height  zero. They  have  a  very  clear  menu. This  is  a  racial  data. For  racial  data  at  we  can  perform all  these  ap  operations  like addition,  sub,  multiplication  divisions. And  so  the  mean  value  and also  standivision  or  vars  can  be  calculated. This  is  the  racial  data. Here  I  also  set some  information  from  the  generative  model, T  to  show  the  difference and  also  the  similarity between  the  two  types  of  data. Like  now  can  see  some  of  the  term they  see  all  years.  Therefore,  no. The  zero.  For  the  interval  data,  no  zero, no  absolute  zero,  but for  for  the  racial  data, no  zero  is  meaningful. Then  also  multiplication  and  division, and  for  the  interval  data, I  cannot  perform  these  operations. But  for  the  racial  data  we  can. And  so  not  twice  as  much  two  tons  on  that. Differ  interval  data  and  data  here  yes. This  actually  shows  some  different  difference between  actually  interval  data and  ratio  data, although  they  all  under  the  category of  quantitative  data  on  numerical  data, but  they  also  have  some  different  meanings. Of  course,  sometimes  impracted. Of  course,  you  will  know  the  menu. Of  this  feature,  we  will understand  I  do  know  the  values  in  numerical. But  actually  this  is  interval  data. This  is  racial  data. Then  we  know  what  operation  can  be  performed, what  o  cannot  be  performed. But  some  practice,  we  just look  at  t  a  lot  of  value, any  possible  value  met  numerical  data. We  also  do  the  different  kind  of operations  like  multiplication  or  whatever. But  just  act,  maybe of  course  you  can  perform  the  operation. But  this  operation  normally maybe  not  that  meaningful, if  you  perform  several  operations and  maybe  you  can act  will  not  a maybe  will  affect the  performance  of  the  model. Is  no  me  machine  problem  given  the  data, we  must  understand  the  nature. Categorical  even  for  numerical  data  whether data  ratio  or  the  interval  data. Even  the  kind  of  category  data. W  one  is  like  a  nominal, which  one  is  ordinal? We  understand  the  natures, the  types  of  the  data. This  is  very  important  because  we  know some  operation  can  be  performed some  cannot  be  performed. Of  course,  you  can still  perform  the  operation, but  sometimes  this  operation just  produce  value  meaningless. Okay.  The  summary  of the  attribute  of  features, different  types  of  features, qualitative  categorical or  quantitative  numeric and  each  of  the  category, we  have  two  types,  subtypes. N  attributes  can  also  be categorized  into  the  types  based on  the  number  of  values  that  can  be  assigned. Under  this  concept,  then  we  have the  die  feature  or  discrete  attributes, then  all  continuous feature  continuous  attributes. For  discrete,  it  only takes  a  finite  possible  value, a  few  values,  or infinite,  but  account  infinite. This  feature  feature  discrete. You  cannot  take  any  possible  values. On  can  take  some  of  the  values. This  is  the  the  discrete. Some  examples. A  nominal  features  I  take  very  few  values. Nominal  ordinal  features  also take  a  few  posit  values. These  all  belong  to  the  discrete. Normally,  discrete features  also  the  categorical  features, coral  O  qualitative.  Okay. I  think  is  now  we  see a  discrete  a  few  possible  values, a  few  possible  value. But  in  some  scenarios, the  number  of  possible  values  infinite, just  like  for  example  here, we  have  an  example  like  natural  number, natural  number,  maybe  one, two,  three,  four,  five,  and  join  infinity. What  is the  possible  number  of  possible  values? Infinite?  But  the  value cannot  be  possible  any  value. Because  we  can  only  have  12, we  cannot  have  1.21  0.51 0.531  0.6  or  something  like  that. The  number  of  p  values  infinite, but  still  cannot  any  arbitrary  values. This  is  called  countably  infinite. This  is  still  actually  a  discrete  discrete. These  are  some  of  the  examples of  It  infinite. This  still  knows  this  is a  discrete  feature  discrete  data. Then  there  is  a  continuous continuous  feature  attribute can  assume  any  possible  values, any  value  value. Think  about  the  temperature  of  the  room. 25.2  0.1  25.12  0126, any  possible  value,  that  is  possible. This  is  the  continuous  attributes. Or  continuous  features. The  feature  can  take  any  real  values. The  number  of  value  normally  is  numerous. The  category  data  are  basically including  the  nominal and  ordinal,  general  data  dice. The  interval  and  ratio. That  is  the  numerical  value of  quantitative  data, quantitative,  D  is  a  continuous. Here  from  here  we  summarize. The  data  we  can  see  qualitative, or  we  see  a  categorical, or  we  see  a  discrete. Then  for  quantitative  data,  we  see, we  can  also  see  numeric  data, or  we  see  continuous  data. But  just  different  terms, different  terms,  actually, but  we  need  to  understand  the  nature, so  we  can  use  them  interchangeably. When  we  talk  about  the  type  of  the  data. Necessarily  we  explore  the  structure of  data  structure  of  data. Then  for  data  set,  normally, it  is  associated  with  data  dictionary. At  this  data  dictionary provide  various information  about  the  data  set. This  data  dictionary  is  also a  meta  data  repository. It  is  a  data  data. The  data  dictionary  gives detailed  information  on  each  of  the  Abs. The  d  istion  as  well  as the  data  type  and  so  other  relevant  details. Ms  we  look  at  one  example. The  data  set  like  we  call the  ta  MPG  at  car  MPG. This  know  the  data dictionary  and give  some  information  about  the  data. For  example,  we  see  the data  characteristics  is  i. That  means  that  tata  data contains  multiple  features. And  also  we  see associated  task  a  regression  regression. At  we  know  under  the  shen, there  are  two  main  problems. One  is  called  classification, another  is  called  a  regression. For  classification  task,  classification  task, the  tact  variable  is  a  discrete,  class  label. Sometimes  only  one  or  two p  two  possible  values. Maybe  like  class  one  class  two. Two  classes. Sometimes  this  number  could  be  huge. For  example,  I  mentioned before  the  email  net, actually  collected  by  Google, contains  a  1  million  data  samples of  image  and  each  image  is  given  a  class. The  total  number  of  classes  is  1,000. This  is  possible  values. Number  of  value  is  one and  big,  is  a  discrete. If  for  the  classification  problem, the  possible  these  target  variable, the  class  label  is  discrete. But  for  regression, the  target  variable  is  continuous. This  is  the  main  difference between  regression  and  classification. These  are  the  two  main  problem under  the  side. We  look  at  the  target  variable.  What  type? What  is  the  data  type. Categorical  classification. Continuous  or  numeric  regression. The  data  set  is  for  regression. Also  we  see  the  feature  touch no  contain  real  features  here like  a  continuous  and  categorical  integers. The  number  of  samples,  398, the  number  of  feature  seven, and  also  like  other  information. Sometimes  they  also  actually  give information  about  who  is the  contributor  of  the  data  set, where  they  collect  data  the  data  set. What's  the  data  set  about?  What  the  problem? Is  about  a  cancer  disa  data  set, or  is  about  a  student  data  set. They  need  to  provide  information  in the  data  report  a  dictionary. Also  know  here,  see  the  data  contains City  cycle  fuel  consumption  in  mo. This  is  not  the  problem,  the  top. Also  who  I  think  they contribute  this  and  also in  which  year  they  contribute. This  is  actually  also part  of  the  data  dictionary and  delete  the  seven  feature. I  think  one,  two, three,  four,  five,  seven. More  than  seven,  two  M. Actually  the  tap  one  a  displacement, and  a  feature  attribute, and  then  the  type  is  continuous. Also  whether  any  issue  with the  data  and  mission  value or  mission  value,  no. Also  for  another  MPG, MPG  is  a  targeted  variable. This  variable,  we  are  going  to predict  called  target  variable. It's  not  a  feature  not  a  variable. Then  it's  also  continuous. Yes, it's  continuous  because  this is  a  regression  problem. Certainly  MPG  is tag  variable  should  be  continuous. Otherwise,  it  will  be a  classification  problem.  Okay. Then  talk  about  the  cylinder, also  the  horse  power  is  continuous. The  weight  of  the  car  is  also  not  continuous, the  acceleration  not  continuous. Normally,  see  the  accelerations  how many  seconds  it  takes  that the  car  speed  change 0-100  miles  per  per  hour. This  is  like  acceleration. Also  like  3.5  like  a 5.9  seconds,  some  6.5  seconds. These  are  continuous  variable  values. This  acceleration  is  also  continuous. Model  year  in  model  year. So  within  which  year, actually  this  model  is  released  or  launched. So  this  model  year. So  a  manufacturer  of  the  car  every  year, we  released  and  almost  every  year. In  China,  some  new  comers release  a  new  model, maybe  every  six  months,  the  very  fast  pace. These  are  the  model  years. There  is  no  integer  because  the  year  2026, 25,  2025,  this  is  the  model  years. The  as  you  know  they also  give  such  a  table,  right. To  talk  about the  information  about  the  features, what's  the  meaning  of  the  features? In  the  left  hand  side,  we  just  look at  the  name  of  the  variable. We  know  what  it  is. Then  whether  it  is a  feature  or  is  a  type  variable, and  so  is  the  type  continuous  or  discrete  on. Okay.  This  data  dictionary gives  us  such  information. I  give  my  data  set, I  think  it's  very  important  to  explore this  data  dictionary to  understand  the  problem. What's  the  data  set  about? Here  from  this  dissolution,  it's  about  dial. Auto  machine  is  a  study. Actually  I  think  the  cars and  number  of  samples and  also  the  feature  types. This  through  the  exploration of  the  data  dictionary, we  can  understand  actually the  problem  also  the  data  set. Also,  when  you  know  a  data  set, collar  data  set  for  a  specific  problem. If  you  want  to  share  to the  community  to  make the  public  available  to  promote  research. You  can  also  need to  provide  such  information. What's  it  about  class  labels, what  the  meaning  of  each  features, or  the  data  types. Of  course,  a,  you  may  not  want  to  provide at  the  complete  information. Maybe  but  at  least you  provide  some  information. This  will  make  others sid  your  data  set  better. If  you  release  the  data, you  also  need  to  give  such information  for  the  data. This  is  just  list  some  of the  samples  in  the  data  set. Every  rule  is  one  sample  is  one  car. The  car  then  the  MPG, and  the  value  tag  value, the  cylend,  the  displacement, actually  the  horse  power. Each  rule  is  a  car.  Each  column is  a  feature  is  a  feature. Of  course, the  first  column  is  a  target  variable. O  the  columns  are  features. So  there  is  provisional  data. We  need  to  see  the  data. And  then  find  the  issues  in  the  data. Then  address  the  issues. Before  now  we  apply  the  machine algorithm  on  the  data  to  lend  a  model. Here  this  is  about  the  data  type. And  also  the  data. Actually  we have  a  ten  minute  break.  Okay. Okay. So  in  the  data,  maybe. Okay.  So  I think  the  first  thing  is,  you  know, is  with  plot  the  numerical  data, numerical  data. The  first  characteristic  of the  data  is  the  central  tendency. I  think  we  are familiar  with  this  central  tendency. For  example,  the  most commonly  used  one  is  called  the  mean  value. M  is  the  most  commonly  used. M  is  just  average. We  get  a  summation  of  the  data. Of  the  values  and  then divided  by  the  number  of  values. The  mean  value. This  is  a  central  tendency  can be  represented  by  this  mean  value. Man  value.  Another  is  a  median  value. We  already  use  this  mean  median. Median  mean  that  we  ran  the  data from  small  es  to  grit or  from  grits  to  smallest. Then  we  find  the  value  in  the  middle. That  is  the  median  value. We  have  the  mean  value  y sometime  need  to  use  a  median  value. This  is  because  the  mean  value  is sensitive  to  all  outliers. Very  sensitive  to  IS. Now  in  this  class  room, student  and  also  me, and  maybe  the  next  one, maybe  a  billionaire  M  or  right  in  the  room, we  want  to  look  at  the  average  income. Probably  the  mean  value could  be  a  very  high  value. Be  actually  my  income  is  t. That  mean  value  is  sensitive  to  aus. Actually  I already  mentioned  these  two  issues. Man  value  problem, autis  Some  values  are  extraordinary. High.  Some  extra  not  ordinarily  low. If  we  include  these  values in  the  calculation,  the  mean. So  the  mean  value  will  be seriously  at  affected  by  this  outliers. I  think  median  value  mos  scenario. The  median  value  is a  more  robust  representation of  the  central  tendency. Sometimes  we  look  at  the  difference between  the  mean  value  and  median  values. I  think  in  general, if  the  data  is  like a  normal  distributions or  uniform  distributions. The  difference  between the  mean  value  and  median  value, I  think  is,  not  much. But  if  the  difference  is big  and  most  likely the  data  distribution  is  skewed,  skewed. That  means  that  in  one  side, in  the  higher  side  or  a  low  side, there  are  a  lot  of  values. Data  distribution  is  skewed. And  even  in  set  for modeling  this  kind  of  data is  normally  to  handle. Whether  or  not  this  feature has  a  skew  disbrition, or  we  just  look  at the  difference  between the  mean  and  median  values. If  the  difference  is  big, then  we  need  to  drill down  to  find  the  reasons, the  difference  between  the  mean and  the  median  is  big. This  is  me  then another  I  the  measure is  called  the  mold  mode. Mode  is  a  number  that  occurs  most  often. For  numerical  values  for  continuous, then  certainly  we  can  find  the  median  value, we  can  find  the  mean  value,  the  no  problem. Both  me  and  median  value  can  be used  as  a  measure  for  the  central  tendency. Okay. Then  for  the  ordinal  data  in  we cannot  do  the  summation then  we  cannot  do  the  division, we  cannot  actually  have  the  no  mean  value. But  we  can  use  the  medium  value  as a  central  tendency  measure for  the  ordinal  data. But  if  the  data  is  nominal. We  cannot  rank  them.  Then  how to  represent  the  central  tendency? Here,  that  that  we  normally, we  use  the  so  called  mode  to  represent. Mode  is  a  number  that  occurs  most often.  We  look  at  the  sequence. Which  number  appears  the  most. Teen  appears  four  times and  then  14  appears  twice, 16,  18,  21,  once. Teen  cc  the  most. 13  is  the  mode. We  use  that  13  to  represent. Okay. This  is  something  like representation,  the  mode. Median  mean  mode. But  we  need  to  understand  the  data  type. We  know  what  operation  can  be  performed, what  operation  cannot  be  performed, and  then  we  can  select the  s  measure  to represent  the  central  tendencies. This  is  something. These  are  things  very  important. Why  we  need  to  analyze to  understand  the  data  type. Mode  is  usually  used for  measure  central  tendencies. I  think  for  ordinal  data, again,  you  can  use  that. But  for  ordinal  data, maybe  a  better  measure  at least  at  the  medium  value. Mode  mainly  used  for the  nominal  data  nominal.  Okay. And  give  some  examples and  the  difference  between mean  value  and  median  values. Some  of  the  values  differ  significant. Some  of  the  features, the  value  not  significant. I  think  if  significant, then  we  need  to  drill  down  to find  the  root  cause  of  that  problem. This  is  the  single  tendency. Then  we  look  at  the  data  and  another  abiti, is  the  data  spread  data  spread. This  is  a  dispersion  of  data. Also  we  are  looking  into the  position  of  the  different  data  values. Dispersion,  actually  the  spread of  the  dispersion. Dispersion  here,  normally  we  use the  variance  to  measure  the  dispersion. These  are  formula  to calculate  the  virus,  right? The  mean  of  the  squared  x  square of  the  x  square  of  the  mean  of  x. We  can  use  this  for  the  calc  variance Another  commonly  used  a  measure is  called  a  standard  vision. The  square  rules  of  the  varus  is just  a  standard  eviion  or the  square  of  the  sn division  is  just  the  varus. These  are  the  two  measures  that  are  commonly used  for  the  dispersion  of  the  data. San  division.  Here  give you  some  examples  and so  we  can  look  at  the  datribution, like  in  the  first  scenario,  46, 40  44,  46,  48, 45,  the  value  are  very  close  to  each  other. Then  we  can  see  the  vari  ism  small. Then  for  another  one,  another  scenario, 46,  59,  39  52. Here  the  vari  is  79.6, in  the  first  scenario  two. Two,  that  means  that  e  vari or  small  study  vision, that  mean  the  data  is  quite  concentrated. And  then  a  big  diss vis  that  mean  the  data  spread  out. Atrial  disa  treat  vars  also sometimes  used  as a  measure  of  ascertain  tase. I  just  give  one  example. Now  given  some  data,  we can  always  train  a  model, and  then  we  can  look  at the  use  the  training  data. We  can  look  at the  performance  on  the  testing  data. But  actually  we  all  know,  Actually, if  given  data  set, you  divide  the  data  into  training  test. You  training  data  to  train  model, te  data  to  evaluate  performance. We  all  know  the  division  of  the  data, different  division  of  the  data  could observe  resign  in  very  different  performance. For  the  same  linear  oritm, same  data,  same  model. If  we  train  use  this the  first  division  of  data, we  can  have  one  performance. Then  we  use  another  division  of  the  data, we  can  get  another  performance. We  can  repeat  the  experiment  many  times. Then  we  can  look  at  the  mean  values. For  example, in  the  first  scenario,  the  performance, on  the  ten  data  is  in  the  first  division, training  ta  division,  the  performer  is  89.5. Then  the  second  scenario is  79  point  something. Then  the  scenario  is  99  something. If  you  take  the  average, and  also  we  can  carve  the  variance. This  variance  actually  shows at  the  ascertains. Normally,  at  if  the  var  is  small, that  means  that  the  model  is  more  robust. Because  the  training  pass  division. We  simulate  the  future  training  and  test. If  if  if  the  scenario  different, then  the  perform  is  very  different. That  means  this  model  or the  algorithm  not  very  robust. Quite  often  when  you  read  research  papers, when  you  look  at  the  performance  of a  linear  algorithm  or  a  model, they  will  repeat  the  experiment  many  times. Every  time  have  a  certain  kind of  tran  tas  divisions. Then  the  performance  normally  is represented  by  the  mean  value. I  say  I  repeat  the  experiment  100  times, the  mean  value  plus  minus  the  snivan. We  hope  the  stand  is  small. That  means  linear  algorithm  is  robust. This  snivion  measure  of  uncertainties. Okay.  Just  like  in  the  first  scenario. Actually  every  time  maybe like  you  produce  a  result performance  very  similar. 46  48,  I  just assume  the  46  for  I  mean  the  performance. They  are  very  similar  to  each  other. This  model  is  very  robust. Different  divisions  of  the  train  test, we  all  get  a  similar  results. But  in  the  scenario  if  again, this  is  no  performance sometimes  34,  very  bad, but  sometimes  very  good  959, it's  changing  a  big  range. But  actually  we  know  that  all know  the  results  random. You  really  don't  know  you cannot  we're  not  very sure  about  the  performance in  the  future  data. If  the  value  is  big, because  of  what  value  we  get  is  random. We  don't  know. But  any  a  big  variance  that  we  have a  very  big  uncertainty about  the  future  performance. This  like  a  central  tendency and  the  mean  value  and  also  the  suni  vision. No  only  use  to  look  at the  statistics  of  the  feature. We  also  use  them  to in  the  evaluation  the  performance. We  look  at  the  mean  average the  mean  mean  performance, and  also  the  seivision, as  an  indication  of  the  robustness  of the  model  and  also  the  line  gitm.  Okay. I  think  this  is  very  common. This  student,  his  results  are  very  stable, every  semester  semester,  all  result  90  17. But  for  some  students, in  this  math  have a  very  good  result  and  that  result  very  bad. This  is  something  like a  very  big  range  of  change. These  are  big  bars. This  is  the  data  position, data  value  position. Data  value  position,  and  here  we  already talk  about  the  median  value. As  median  value,  if  we  rank  the  data from  big  to  small  or  from  small  to  big, then  the  value  in the  middle  is  the  median  value. As  the  median  value, we  divide  the  whole  data  into  two  parts. The  first  half  from  the  sms or  from  big  to  the middle  value  right  to  the  median  value, then  from  median  value  to  the  remaining  half. Every  half  I  can  have  a  median  value. You  remind  the  data  from the  smallest  to  greatest. For  the  first  half  from smallest  to  to  the  media  value, we  find  the  median  value. This  medium  value  is  called  Q,  Q. The  medium  value  of  the  f  is  called  Q. The  medium  value  of the  overall  data  actually  is  a  q2q2. Then  for  the  second  half, because  the  menu  al  divi  that  mean  two  part. For  the  second  part  half, the  median  value  actually  is the  so  called  Q  three. The  median  of  the  second half  is  called  Q  three. The  median  of  the  overall  data is  just  a  Q.  Q. Q  one,  25%  from  small  as  25%  hole. Then  to  median,  50%  hole. Then  to  Q,  75%  hole, then  to  the  maximum  value,  there's  100%  tile. These  are  the  Q  Q  to  Q,  the  three  values. Also  here  we  from  small  es  to  Q and  also  from  Q  three  to  maximum  values. Totally  here,  we  have  f  values. I  the  stats  sometimes they  call  f  value  summary. Minimum  max.  This  is  the  five  value  summary. Treat  these  values,  not  just  a  few  values. The  few  values  also  shows  a  ta  da  at  dariut. Yeah. The  one  we  get,  for  example,  here, they  give  the  features  a  few  features like  the  median  value  and  cylinder, the  main  minimum  value  three, the  maximum  value  eight, and  then  we  have  a  media  value, e.  Then  for  dtment, cylinder  here  is  an  integer, and  then  normally  3-8. More  advanced  card  rather  they have  more  cylinders  like  eight. Then  of  displacement,  is  continuous. A  region  is  I  think  is  no  nominal. Denote  one  country,  two denote  another  country, and  three  de  the  country. One,  two,  three,  the  value  show  the  country. Then  sh  media  values. Now  we  take  the  displacement  as  an  example, then  we  look  at  the  difference. The  difference  between  Q  one  and  Q  two. Q  one  is  6.2  and  median  value. The  median  value  here,  the  given  here. The  difference  between  median  value of  Q  is  44.3. This  is  for  the  displacement, difference  between  media  value  and  Q. From  25%  to  50%. We  look  at  the  difference between  these  two  values. Then  the  difference  between  no  median and  Q  three,  50%  to  75%. Then  the  values  of  93. We  can  see  the  very  big  difference from  Q  one  to  Q  two, the  difference  is  only  44.3. Then  from  Q  three  to  Q  two  to  Q  three, the  difference  here  is  nine,  big  difference. We  can  see  the  very  big  difference. What  does  this  mean?  This  means the  larger  values  are  more  spread out  than  the  smaller  values. Then  for  the  present  out  for  the  second  half. For  the  second  half,  actual  data spread  bigger  values.  Spread.  Okay. In  a  very  big  range. For  the  smaller  values,  they all  in  a  smaller  range, smaller  range  because  the  difference is  only  44.3, the  mean  in  the  first  half, the  data  is  quite  concentrated. While  in  the  second  half, the  data  spread  out. The  values  are  in  a  very  big  range. That's  the  reason  why  you  see  this. In  such  a  scenario,  normally  the  data  skewed. Based  on  the  five  value,  summary, and  then  they  have  the  boss  plot  both  plot. For  the  boss  plot,  they also  have  these  five  values  like  Q, the  minium  value,  Q,  25%, the  first,  then  Q  three, and  then  also  have  mau  value  minimum  value. But  in  the  boss  plot  in  the  boss  plot, and  this  Mum  value the  minimum  value  is  not  really the  one  minimum  value  in  all  the  data. Because  here  they  also  consider  the  as  Okay. In  the  both  plot,  in the  middle,  we  have  a  box. The  upper  edge  of the  upper  bond  of  the  bot  is  the  Q  three, the  low  bond  is  Q  one, then  the  one  in  the  middle, the  very  thick,  line horizontal  line  is  the  medium  value. Then  the  ten. The  ten  to  this the  code  ate  the  minimum  value. But  even  below  the  minimum  value, we  still  have  some  values. These  values  are  considered  as  ats. Here,  above  the  Q  three, they  have  this  so  called  maximum  value, and  even  above  this  meu  value, they  also  have  some  values  here. This  is  also  the as  above  the  maximum  value  or below  the  minimum  value are  considered  as  Outs. In  the  box  plot,  how to  calculate  this  menu value  or  maximum  value. Actually,  this  mau  value  menu  value is  based  on  the  so  called Q  R.  Inter  quot  range. Q  R  actually  is a  difference  between  Q  three  and Q.  Q  three  minus  Q  one  is  QR. Based  on  the  mauve  based  on  the  q1q3, and  also  this  QR, they  will  actually  calculate the  minimum  value  or  maximum  value. Here,  act  for  the For  the  minimum  value. At  from  at  the  Q, and  then  the  minus  the  1.5  at  Q  R. For  example,  here  we  have  a  Q 173  and  the  media  76  Q  379, then  the  difference  between  is Q,  the  inter  range. 79  73  is  six.  This  Q  R. From  from  the  Q, then  the  -1.5  times  of  this  Q R.  Here  is  the  Q  73, -1.5  times  six,  that  me  nine, 73  minus  nine,  that's  64. By  in  practice  how  to  find the  what  is  this  minimum  value  here? Actually  the  final  value  from  the  data. For  example,  in  the  data, These  are  the  values  that  are  close  to  cty four,  70  cty  360. They  will  find  which  value is  above  this  city  four, and  it  is  close  to  d42d  sty  four. You  can  see  among  all  the  values, only  70  is  a  cty  four. This  is  the  closest  value that  is  264  and  greater  than  64. This  value  will  be  used  as  the  minimum  value. Similarly  for  the  maximum  value, they  will  start  from  this  Q  three, then  plus  1.5  Q  R. Like  79  plus  988. Then  we  also  look  at  the  dataset. What  values  are  close  to  this 88,  but  below  88? Here,  for  example,  we  have these  values,  82  84, all  these  values  are  eight, 82  84  below  88, but  84  is  closer  to  this  88. 84,  it's  used  as  a  maximum  value  here. An  value  greater  than these  meu  values  consider  as  Out. An  value  below  these minimum  values  consider  out. Actually  the  S  normally actually  will  affect the  mean  value  very  much. We  need  to  have  identify  the  outs, and  then  we  need  to  take  some  measures, take  some  action  to  address  this  issue. Later  we  will  talk  about  how  to  handle  OS. The  both  plot.  Of  course, in  press  know  that  there  was  no  need  for us  to  calculate  these  values? The  Q  one,  Q  three,  two, and  then  Q  R.  Then  we  look  at the  the  Q  plus  1.5  Q,  1.5  Q. Then  we  look  at  what  are the  close  values  above the  1.5. What  is  the  menu the  methine  value  that  is below  at  the  Q  plus  1.5  Q. We  there  no  need  to  do  these  calculations. Actually.  Normally  in  the  toll  box, they  have  this  function  for  the  boss  plot. You  just  call  the  function, given  the  feature  or  the  value. They  plot  this  automatic  for  us. This  is  a  boss  plot  actually  to  look  at the  position  value  positions. And  at  the  shape  of  this  box  plot. And  like  the  distance between  the  maximum  value  and  the  Q, the  distance  between  Q one  and  the  minimum  value, and  also  know  the  position  of the  median  value  the  a  line  right  in  the  box. This  actually  actually  reveal at  the  distribution  of  the  data. This  diagram  shows the  four  both  plot  for  four  features. Actually,  the  first  one  is  the  both  plot  of cylinder  and  the  second  one  both  plot  of the  displacement  and  both below  region  and  both  middle  ear. Only  for  the  both  plot or  middle  ear,  we  can  find  the  tree. The  median  value  is  in the  middle  of  the  bos  plot, similar  distance  to  the  three  and  also. Then  in  all  others  in  others,  you  can  see. The  den  O  is  almost  equal  to the  minimum  to  the  note  Q  one  to  the  Q. This  normally  means  the  data  skewed. That  mean  that  in  one  side, minimum  values  in  the  small  value  side or  big  value  side  at  the  data  is  spread  out. This  is  the  both  plot  can reveal  such  characteristics of  the  data  distribution. This  is  this  is  visualization. Another  visualization  to  is  a  histogram. Hogram. How  to  draw  a  hisogram. Normally  for  the  data  in  the  range, we  divide  the  range  into a  certain  number  of  so  called  beans. Normally  the  beans  have  equal  range. The  default  value  normally  is  ten. In  the  tall  balls,  if you  don't  design  the  bean, so  you  can  design  the  be. The  bean  does  not  have  to be  to have  the  identical  width.  You  can  design. But  the  default  is  the  width of  the  beans  actually  the  same. Also  the  default  values  normally  is  ten. That  means  the  whole  range  is divide  the  data  into  ten  into  ten, the  whole  range  divided  into  ten  beans. Then  we  cut  how  many  values  in  the  first  be, how  many  values  in  the  second being  how  ale  in  the  dad  bein. Then  we  produce  that  plot. In  the  histogram, horizontal  axis  shows  the  values. Each  one  is  the  bean, you  can  see  the  identical  one  is  horizontal. The  been  normally  is  identical. Width  of  the  beans. The  vertical  axis  shows  the  cost. C  means  how  many  values in  this  in  this  range, how  many  be  in this  range,  home  another  range. Based  on  for  each  of  the  bean, we  can  the  number  of  values. Then  we  can  plot  this  histo  graph. Of  course,  the  turbos normally  have  this  function. Are  we  show  six  examples. In  the  first  one,  you  can  see three  We  can  say actually  the  cons  for  different  beings, the  number  is  almost  the same,  almost  the  same. I  mean  the  vertical, the  vertical  values,  no  big  difference. This  nome  shows a  uniform  distributions,  Uniform. Ideal  scenario,  for  example,  no, we  have  100  values  and  1-10. That  means  1-2,  maybe  ten  values  around  ten. Then  2-3  around  ten  values, two  to  three,  three  to  four, maybe  like  ten  values, or  four  to  five  and  nine  values, five  to  611  values. This  value,  the  number  of cons  of  the  values  similar. So  the  first  one  uniform. Then  the  second  one  is like  this  is  like a  normal  dibion  look  like  this. We  have  p  values  and  then  mean  in  the  middle, we  have  more  samples. We  have  more  somewhat  have a  value  near  the  central. This  is  a  unit  model. Then  the  below  a  bimodel. Bi  model,  you  can  see  there  are two  peaks,  two  peak  value. In  the  first  we  have  a  p  value, and  then  later  the  value  drops, then  have  another  p  value. This  bi  model. At  this  kind  of  exploion  is  very  useful. Sometimes,  we  look  at  the  distribution, then  we  use  one  function to  model  the  distribution. Pow  of  I  then  we assume  the  data  for  normal  distribution, then  we  use  a  non  normal  function to  model  the  distribution. But  the,  we  are  not  very  sure about  the  data  distribution. From  this  togram,  we  can  identify  whether it  really  follows  judge whether  follow  a  normal  distribution,  or  not. For  example,  if  a  uniform  distribution, if  you  use  a  normal  distribution, a  cauent  function  to  approximate it  certainly, so  this  is  not  approximation. Also  if  the  model  bi  moodle,  bi  mood, that  means  that  if  we  want  to approximate  this  data  astribution, we  should  use  the  two  gaucan  functions. Each  of  the  gut  function,  the  mean  value, the  first  p.  Then maybe  for  the  second  p  value. This  should  be  the  mean  value  of the  second  gatent  functions. If  you  use  one,  then the  approximation  is  not  accurate. There  could  be  a  big  approximation accurate  for  the  data  attributions. Through  the  zogram, which  visualization  of  the  data  attribution, we  can  understand  the  data  attribution. Then  this  also  help  us  to decide  actually  what  kind  of  function could  be  used  to  best actually  approximate  these  data  attributions. I  in  man  actually  in  particular  in next  week  when  we  study the  basic  decision  rule. Actually,  what  we  are  going  to  do is  to  approximate  the  data  attributions. Because  in  the  probability  calculation, we  need  to  use  the  density  function. Density  function  is  the  data attribution  function,  density  function. Normally  we  assume  the  follow normal  distribution,  but  not  necessarily, the  diagram  here  shows the  different  distributions. We  cannot  always  use the  normal  function  to approximate  the  data  attributions. This  Hogram,  visual  agation about  the  data  dion. A  sums  just  in  the  morning,  ask  me, why  are  these  called  skilled  left skilled  at.  They  look  at  the  tail. The  either  tail,  this is  also  called  a  long  tail  here. E  a  tail  in  the  right hand  side  of  the  p  value, then  this  is  called  a  trial  skilled. For  this  scenario,  this  is  a  p  value, then  the  tail  long  tail is  in  the  left  hand  side. This  is  let  skilled. So  the  are  left  ski  at  the  sce. Based  on  the  shape  here, the  tail  in  the  right  hand side  of  the  p  value or  left  hand  side  of  the  peak  value, the  max  value  here. Okay.  This  diagram  shows for  the  MPD  data  set. This  shows  a  different  for this  model  year  is  quite  atrial  uniform. Then  for  some  of  them  like  this, acceleration  is  like  a  normal  attribution. There  are  only  one  p  values. These  are  like  a  skewed,  right. These  are  like  a  bi model,  something  like  that. This  is  just  the  inp  viization of  the  dtau  through  the  zag. These  are  normally  for the  numerical  data,  we  plow. For  the  categorical  data, because  for  the  category  data, we  just  have  a  few  possible  values. Normally,  we  this  kind  of  table to  to  explore  actually  the  data. For  example,  just  like  the  Hizo  gram, I  think  the  for  e  continuous  variables, we  divide  the  whole  range  into many  pat  identical  beans. Then  we  can  count the  number  of  values  in  each  being. And  For  the  categorical  categorical  data, and  each  feature  can have  very  few  possible  values. For  example,  the  gender, two  posi  value  the  male,  female. Here  we  can  also  use  a  table, which  I  need  to  use  a  table, and  then  to  show  for  female, and  then  how  many  values. And  then  for  male  home  values. Here  they  use  the  treat  for the  car  name  and also  the  cylinders  the  two  tables. The  first  am  is  a  car  name. Different  cars,  how  many  samples. For  the  name,  for  the  first  value, only  one  sample,  for the  second  value  the  name, actually  just  one  value. O  for  the  last  one  AMC  and  then  the  four. Then  the  table  actually  to  illustrate actually  the  dibution  of  the  data. The  number  of  cons  for  each  and each  value  of  a  particular  feature. For  for  this  fame  feature, then  the  cylinder  cylinder with  three  cylinder  have four  cars  and  four  cylinder, 200  204  cars, and  then  for  five  and  with  three, then  for  684,  for  813. This  table  also  give  a  very  good  summary. Actually  just  gram. But  here  we  just  the  table because  the  possible  value  here  is  limited. Nation  of the  relationship  between  the  variables, and  I  think  a  visualization  to  here is  called  a  scatter  plot  scatter  plot. Scatter  plot. Horizontal  is  one  actual  variable. A  vertical  is  one  variable. Horizontal  vertical. This  is  a  scatter  plot. B  the  two  features or  two  variable  define  a  point. We  look  at  for  one  sample, we  look  at  the  values. Of  one  feature,  one  variable. We  look  at  the  features, the  value  of  another  variable. We  use  these  two  value  as  a  coordinate. Then  we  can  find a  corresponding  point  in  the  space. These  are  the  scald  plot  for  all  samples. One  feature, one  variable  against  another  one. You  can  imagine  if  the  data, there's  no  relationship  between the  two  feature  two  variables. You  can  imagine  the  data  division normally  random  in  the  space. But  this  diagram  shows  a  relationship, something  like  this  kind  of  thing, like  the  smaller  and then  the  horizontal  axis, which  is  the  displacement. Then  the  vertical  is  MPG,  MPG, then  at  them  the  larger  the  displacement, basically  the  smaller  the  MPG. This  kind  of  trend. Actually  in  this  particular  example, this  MPG  act  is  the  target  variable. This  means  that  the  known  is dependent  displace met  has  a  certain  relationship  with  this  MPG. This  means  that  it  is  useful  feature, which  will  include  this  feature  in  the  model. Again,  we  use  this  known  vertical  and  MPD, the  target  value,  the horizontal  is  another  variable. If  we  look  at  the  data  dribuion, also  random,  spare  out  the  whole  space. Not  something  like  this where  they  have  such  a  trend. A  trend  should  a  relationship. I  have  no  such  a  random  distributed, that  means  most  likely  this  feature is  no  relationship  between this  feature  and  the  target  variable. That  means  the  no  need to  include  this  variable  in  the  model. This  is  the  scaled  plot between  the  tag  variable  and  the  feature. We  can  also  actually  use  the  tag  variable, the  plot  the  scaled  plot  using  two  features. Then  we  can  use  this  ate to  discover  the  correlation, the  redundancy  between  the  features. If  these  two  are  totally independent  features, then  also  the  distribution  of  data  is  random. Then  if  it  has  a  certain  strain. That  means  there  are  certain  correlations. A  special  scenario  that the  two  features  is  the  same. When  you  draw  the,  you  can observe  a  straight  a  straight  line, maybe  like  a  45  degree  or  a  certain  degree. If  the  two  features  is  the  same. It's  a  one.  O  show  the  reation  shape. That  mean  the  two  features. A  scatter  plot  is  used to  explore  the  relationship  between the  variable  between  the  features and  the  target  variable  and  also  between the  feature  and  the  features  to to  discover  the  correlation  and  also the  redundancy  underline  the  features. This  a  scatter  plot  is  also very  useful  tool  to plow  the  relationship between  the  features  and also  the  feature  and  the  tagged  variable. This  for  categorical  data. Now  we  have  the  two  way  at  and  tables. O  is  the  all  region, one,  two,  three,  Ather  the  model  year. I  70,  71  so  this  model  year. They  also  show  under  each  model  year, how  many  cars  are  from  country  one, how  many  cars  from  country  two, how  many  cars  from  number  two. This  also  show the  relationships  between  the  two. Next,  actually,  we  talk  about the  data  quality and  remediation  data  quality. What  data  quality? We  look  at  data  quality. Two  types  of  commonly  encounter  the  problems. Certain  data  elements  without  a  value. Then  we  see  this  admission  value. This  is  normally  called mission  value  problem. We  have  a  data  set. Suppose  every  feature  for every  sample  should  have  a  value. But  in  the  data  set, some  of  the  features  for some  of  the  samples  have  now  value. In  the  table,  this  is  simply  empty, or  sometimes  they  use a  question  this  is  the  actual  emission  value. This  is  the  first  problem,  admission  value. Also,  sometimes  the  find another  commonly  encountered  problem. These  data  elements  having  values, surprisingly  different  from the  other  elements. These  values  are  large  or  extra. Very  different  from  other  values. These  are  the  outliers. We  have  these  two  issues  that  are common  One  is  at, another  is  admission  value. A  admission  value  could cause  by  many  factors. Maybe  during  the  data collection  stage,  for  example, and  maybe some  information  is  simply  unavailable. Then  if  unavailable,  normally, you  cannot  assign  some  value, B  you  assign  the  value, then  this  value  should  be  meaningful. In  such  a  scenario, we  prefer  just  say  unknown. We  just  miss.  We  don't  feel  an  actual  value. This  is  the  mission  value. For  lies,  these  values lie  value  could  be  caused  by  areas. For  example,  and  quite  often  I know  you  will  recall  a  percent  height. We  use  a  meter,  1.7  something 1.8  something  1.6  something,  one  point. But  maybe  in  one  scenario, the  percent  forget  that  unit, then  is  179,  something  like  that. Then  this  value  179 is  very  different  from  other value,  one  point  something. Then  this  values.  This  may be  caused  by  area,  recording  area. Of  course,  in  some  scenario, the  could  because  of the  areas  could  represent something  maybe  unknown  or very  different  from  the  normals. A  normal  and  we  have a  certain  range  of  the  values. The  abnormal  could  be  very  high  values. For  example,  the  blood  pressure, for  normal  person,  systolic pressure  like  around  120, for  subject, we  measure  this  systolic  pressure, 120  M  MH  G.  Another  is  119m  MH  g, another  is  one  MH G.  These  are  the  normal  values. But  then  for  some  known  patient, they  have  extra  high  blood  pressures. 10m  MH. This  is  something  is very  different  from  other  values. This  is  not  actually  considered as  these  at  values, but  not  considered  as  at  caused  by  not  a. I  just  represent  maybe  an  abnormal  class. This  is  the  two  issues so  we  frequently  encounter. The  mission  value  problem and  the  aut  problem. Multi  a  fact  that  co  little  d by  incorrect  sample  se  slation, and  error  in  data  collations. Examples  selction.  Sometime  that, maybe  we  combine  data  set. We  will  see  a  data  set  is collected  for  the  same  problem, problem,  maybe  at a  certain  duration  of  the  time. Another  data  set  data set  maybe  a  raw  data  set. If  you  combine  the  tool to  form  a  bigger  data  set, so  some  e  will  be  very  different  from  others. This  also  be  the  outliers. There  are  multiple  issues, also  are  in  the  data  collection. Then  the  data  remediation. We  found  the  issue. We  identify  the  issues, but  the  data  is  plosion. We  know  the  mission  values, there  are  some  outs. Then  how  to  handle  them. That  is  the  data  remediation. Firstly,  we  look  at  the  handling  of  OS. We  already  defined  the  t  Outs  are samples  with  how  abnormally high  or  low  value. We  may  consider  the  following  approaches not  to  handle  the  ties. Remove  aus. These  at  the  removal. We  have  some  samples. This  way  is  very  easy. You  just  delay  the  samples  with  ats  with extra  high  values  or extra  low  value  Abnormal high  ve,  abnormal  low  values. But  normally  there  is  a  condition. If  the  removal  of  the  alias  removal does  not  affect  the  result  of  our  modeling. Do  not  affect  the  model  results, the  linear  results  much. Then  we  can  remove  that. But  if  the  removal  of this  alias  will  affect  the  model  performance. Will  affect  the  model, the  lining  of  the  model. Then  we  should  not  remove  the  outs. Here,  there  is  a  condition  if we  want  to  use  this  method. That  means  that  the  number  of  samples, the  number  of  as  samples  is  very  limited. We  see  the  percentage  of the  alias  in  the  data  set  is  very  small. One,  2%,  maybe  the  removal of  such  a  small  percentage of  samples  from  the  trial  data  set, maybe  will  not  affect the  performance  of  the  lining  results. Then  we  can  adopt  this  strategy because  this  str  is  easy,  is  very  easy. But  the  condition  is  this, the  removal  of  the  data  will  not  affect the  lining  results.  Okay. If  a  treat  removal  will  affect the  pnu  result  if the  number  of  samples  or  percentage  of the  ats  is  relatively  high, then  we  shall  use other  methods  to  address  to  handle  the  atlas. That  is  the  imputations. Imputation  means  that  we  want  to  replace the  abnormally  high  values or  normally  low  values  low  values, using  other  normal  values. This  is  called  the  imputation. You  impute  the  values  of  course  ae, what  are  the  other  values? Normal  values  at,  we  can  impute the  values  with  me  or  medium  or  mood. Because  we  really  don't  know.  This  value is  extra  high  actually we  know  maybe  this  is  caused  by  wrong, but  the  area  in  the  collation. But  what  value  we  use to  replace  this  extra high  or  extra  low  value. I  think  a  very  simple  way is  this  actually,  we  use  the  media. The  mean  or  the  mood  to  replace. If  it  is  continuous  features  and probably  we  can  just  use  the  mean  value. The  mean  we  call  the  mean  value, we  should  exclude  the  at  lies. Actually  know  when  we  know  in  the  superdenal, if  this  is  a  supinal  problem, we  normally  the  assemble  within the  same  class,  have  strong  similarities. That  means  that  we  normally  the  assemble  in the  same  class  have  similar values  in  a  future. Then  samples  of  another  different  class normally  have  a  different  range, have  a  different  range  for  the  same  feature. That  means  when  we  calculate the  mean  or  median  values. If  this  is  a  supervise  nu  problem, if  we  know  the  class  labels. This  mean  value  or  median  value  should  be calculated  based  on  the  samples within  the  same  class. If  this  sample  of  the  sample  is  from  class. We  want  to  replace the  extra  high  or low  value  using  the  median  value. We  should  use  a  samples  of class  to  calculate  the  mean  value or  median  value  or  mode  of  this  feature. Then  we  re  the  abnormal  values using  this  me  median  mood. Okay?  Okay,  maybe  let's  way. We  first  have  a  brief.  Okay,  tell  me  a  brief. Another  is.  So  we  know  the  at  low  value. We  can  replace  the  values  the  maximum  value. Minimum  value  at  just  now when  we  in  the  boss  plot, we  have  maximum  value,  we  have  minimum  value. This  minimum  value  maximum  value  in the  best  boss  plot  actually  is not  the  true  maximum  minimum  in  the  data  set. Above  the  values,  maximum  value will  be  the  aus. If  we  use  a  cave,  the  cave, then  this  maximum  value  will  be  assigned, will  be  used  to  replace  the  at  values. If  this  value  actually is  below  the  minimum  value. Then  we  can  use  the  minimum  value  to replace  at  these  at  values. This  is  the  P.  O  cog no  au  has  maximum  value  minium  value. They  can  also  use  different  value  percentile, 5%  tile  or  95  95th  percentile. They  use  this  value. We  have  media  with ecog  from  the  smallest  to  5%. What  is  the  value  with  this  value? No  use  a  minimum  value. The  minimum  value,  or we  don't  use  the  maximum  value  with the  95%  hole.  This  value. Then  this  5%  will  we  consider  at. Then  also  in  the  bottom, O  5%  we  cons  the  ais. We  use  this  no  5%  or  95%  of these  values  to  replace the  extra  high  or  extra  low  values. This  is  the  so  called  method, There  is  one  scenario, that  is  if  there is  a  significant  number  of  ats. In  the  first  case, we  see  at  the  removal of  the  tal  In  this  method, so  there  is  a  condition,  very  few  samples are  at  samples. But  if  there  is  a  significant  number  of  at, they  should  be  treated  differently in  the  statistical  model. Maybe  these  outliers  represent a  new  pattern  or  something  like  that. Not  because  of  the  area  of  other  reasons. Maybe  we  represent  a  new  pattern. Just  now,  I  use a  Y  example  for  the  blood  pressures. No  normal  person  in  the  range. 1%,  maybe  have  a  high  blood  pressure, a  zero,  M  MHD. This  is  consider  autis. But  if  you  take  a  lot  of  examples, we  know  many  people  nowadays,  in  particular, the  senior  people,  the  old  people, and  a  large  portion  of  of  them has  a  high  blood  pure  hypertension. That  means  a  very  significant  number of  samples  patient  subject. Has  a  blood  pressure  with  a  very  high  values. This  represent  a  new  pattern. This  is  the  normal  values  for the  people  with  high  blood  pages. In  such  a  scenario,  maybe  then  we  need to  treat  them  differently. Maybe  we  need  to  build  two  models. This  is  something  like  bimodal, bimodal  problem. I  one  at  a  num  sample a  significant  low  value  or  sign  high  values, then  another  is  normal  values. We  can  consider  the  no  the  two  modes. We  can  bud  maybe  two  models. For  the  two  group  of  data. One  particular  model  for the  so  called  Outliers. This  lie  is  not  called  by  as. They  represent  a  new  patent. We  may  separate  to model  this  part  of  the  data. The  natural  not  because  of  error, then  we  should  keep  them. Noether  we  look  at  the  handling of  the  mission  values. Mission  values  actually  normally  is a  question  mark  or  empty  in  the  in  the  table. How  to  handle  the  mission  values. How  to  handle the  samples  with  mission  values. Similar  to  the  handle  of  the  ties. Now  we  can  the  first  method  is  to  eliminate samples  or  remove the  samples  with  mission  values. Of  course,  there  is  a  condition. The  condition. Maybe  only  a  small percentage  of  the  samples  or a  small  number  of  samples have  mission  values. Then  the  removal  or elimination  of  the  samples, will  not  affect  the  lining  performance. We  are  not  affect  of  the  models. Because  it's just  a  small  number  of  samples  or a  small  percentage  of samples  have  mission  values. Removal  of  them,  will  not affect  the  modern  process  much. Then  we  can  just  remove  them. These  are  a  very  simple  method, and  also  the  condition, the  number  of  samples  with emission  value  is  normally  small. Some  scenarios,  we  should not  simply  remove  them. Because  the  data  acquisition  for every  sample  could  be  costly, could  cost  money,  could  cost  time. Some  of  the  values  of  admission, for  these  samples,  I think  we  should  not  remove  them. We  should  try  our  best  to remind  it  to  impute  a  emission  values. In  other  words,  we  should replace  these  mission values  some  reasonable  values. This  is  the  imputation,  imputation. This  is  the  second  method. The  first  method  ination  or  removal. The  second  method  is  the  impute the  imputing  mission  value. Imputing  mission  value,  that  means  we  replace the  mission  values  of  using  other  values. The  estimated  values. The  estimated  values  I  think the  common  use  the  values actually  are  the  me. The  mean  value  or the  median  value  or  the  mood. Depending  on  the  data  type. If  the  data  is  continuous, maybe  with  the  median  value  mean  value, and  of  course,  if  there  are  outliers, maybe  we  want  to  use  the  median  value. We  sign  the  mean  value  median  value to  the  mision  value. Either  the  data  is categorical,  this  feature  categorical, and  we  don't  have  the mean  value  or  the  mean  value, and  if  it's  nominal,  we  can  use  the  mode. If  it  is  ordinal, we  can  use  a  media  value  to replace  or  to  assign  to  the  mission  values. This  is  some  ways. The  media  actually  and  the  most frequently  use estimate  for  the  mesial  values. Of  course,  in  the  spinal. Again,  in  the  sun,  actually, this  me  media  mode  actually should  be  obtained  from samples  of  the  same  class  because  we  know the  samples  of  the  same  class  along certain  feature  feature or  have  similar  values. We  should  not  use  the  sample  of  other  class to  calculate  the  mean  value or  median  value  or  mode. We  should  use  the  sample  of  the  same  class. To  estimate  to  the  median  of  mood, and  then  replace  all assigned  to  the  mission  value. These  are  imputed  median  values. Here  median  mode,  mode. Another  s  is  to identify  the  similar  type  of  observations. Whose  values  are  known. Then  here  this  is  what  I  talk  about. Actually,  we  use  a  similar  type. Similar  type  here  maybe  a  similar  class. We  use  them  of  the  same  class. Okay.  There  are  other  ways  even to  to  to  to replace  the  mid  twice  me  mission  value. Even  for  someone  within  the  same  class, actually  the  value  could  be  very  different. For  example,  we  have  two  classes, male,  female  student. For  one  student,  we  see maybe  the  body  weight  or  height  is  mission. We  know  even  for  the  male  student, actually  the  height  is  in  a  very  big  range. Then  the  actually  even we  use  the  same  class  to estimate  the  mean  value  or  median  value or  mode  and  then  assign  to  the  mission  value. This  may  not  be  a  good  choice. Another  way  that  actually, among  samples  within  the  same  class. We  identify  the  samples  that  are very  similar  to the  assemble  with  mission  values. Of  course,  based  on the  other  features,  based  on  other  features. The  seem  beyond  the  same  class. There  are  so  many  samples  within  a  sm  class. Maybe  the  di  the  dispersion  very  big, the  spread  very  big. Here,  we  just  identify a  few  a  small  number  of samples  that  are  very  similar to  the  sample  with  emission  values. Then  we  the  small  number  of  samples  to c  the  mean  value and  those  maybe  the  median  value  of  the  mood. Then  assign  to the  sample  with  admission  value. I  believe  this  estimate  of  the  mission  value, I  think  is  more  accurate because  this  estimation  is  from the  samples  that  are  very similar  to  the  sample  with  mission  value. No  from  all  samples  within  the  sim  class. This  is  another  way for  impute  the  mission  value. We  use  a  very  similar  sample within  a  simile  class. These  estimated  mission  values. Estimate,  that,  maybe  there  are certain  relationship  between the  feature  between  the  features. We  know  the  scatter  plot, we  can  see  some  of  the  features are  correlated  with  another  features. Correlation.  Then  that  mia, we  can  infer  one  feature  from  other  features. That  we  can  use the  two  features,  for  example, just  two  feature  or  even  more  features, and  we  use  the  sample  without mission  value  with  the  two  features. Then  we  represent  one feature  in  another  feature. We  can  build  the  relationship. For  example,  feature  number  of x  one  equal  to  two  x  two, assume  this  is  just  no  example. Using  the  sample  without  mission  values. Of  the  same  class,  we  build the  relationship  between  these  two  features. Then  once  this  relation  is  obtained, for  the  sample  with  a  mission  value, we  just  look  at  assume  no  x  y  is  a  mission. Then  we  check  x  two  for  this  sample. Then  we  times  two,  based  on  the  relationship, or  then  we  use  this  value  two  times  x  y, two  time  two  as  estimation  for  X  one. Here  we  build the  relationship  between  the  features. Of  course,  here  is  just  one  example, that  means  we  use  one  feature to  approximate  another  feature. But  at  in  practice, we  can  use  more  features. At  one  feature  could  have a  relationship  with  more  features. We  can  use  more  features  to predict  the  feature  with  mission  values. This  es  mission  values. These  are  the  other  methods. This  estimate  may  be  no  better  than the  mean  value  or  median  value  or mode,  more  accurate  estimation. This  is  the  two  issues, mission  value  problem  and  the  atie  problem. This  problem  must  be  handled  carefully. If  this  actually  problem  not  addressed  well, and  then  actually  this  data will  affect  the  lining  performance. This  is  so  far we  have  talked  about  these  two  issues, and  also  we  have  proposed many  methods  to  address  these  two  issues. Now  we  look  at  another  issue. That  is  a  scalum. That  normal  to  come  to  the  data  prese. Sc  normalization  and  standard  res, what  is  the  feature  scalum? Feature  scalum  means  to transform  the  features  different  features, the  value  feature  into  a  similar  range. This  is  called  scalu. Feature  skiing  the  data  precessing  technique used  to  transform  the  value  of  feature, attributes  in  a  data  set  to  a  similar  scale. Actually,  in  the  data  set, actually  because  the  features could  have  very  different  scales. I  give  some  example. If  C  GPA, four  point  something,  two  point  something, three  point  something,  the  one  feature, GPA,  CGPA. Then  another  feature  is  your  height. Then  the  unit  is  CM, 100  something,  170  something, 180  something,  160  something, three  point  something,  very  big  range. This  scale  is  no.  Hundred.  This  scale is  in  a  single  digit, very  big  difference,  the  scales. For  such  data  set,  want  to  transform the  features  different  features like  body  weight  or  height, or  the  CDP  into  a  similar  scale. This  fate  scaling, transform  the  values  to a  similar  range,  similar  scale. This  is  called  feature  scaling. Why  feature  scaling  is  needed. Here,  the  purpose  is  to ensure  that  all  features  contribute equally  to  the  model to  award  the  domination  of one  feature  of  features  with  larger  values. In  a  model,  if the  values  have  a  larger  model, actually  a  larger  values, then  they  will  dominate. We  want  to  avoid  this  problem. The  one  feature  scale  here give  two  example  reasons. First  of  all,  the  distance  based  algorithm. Actually  descent  is a  very  important  metric  in the  classified  design  because descent  is  used  to  measure  the  similarities. You  can  imagine,  classification. Put  the  sample  into  different  classes. Normally,  we  have  a  basic  assumption. Samples  within  the  same class  should  be  similar. Sample  in  the  class one  should  be  similar  to  each  other. Sample  in  class  two should  be  similar  to  each  other. How  to  measure  the  similarities? In  machine  nu,  normally  the  distant is  used  to  similarities. We  we  measure  similarity  between  two  samples. Each  sample  is  a  oficial  actor. At  each  feature, contribute  to  the  distance  measure. If  we  use  a  euclideon distance,  between  two  samples, we  first  look  at  the  distance  difference along  feature  number  one,  then  square. Then  we  look  at  the  difference on  feature  number  two,  then  square. The  difference  square,  then  the  submissions, let  me  take  that  square  roots. These  are  ecldan  distance. You  can  imagine,  for  some  of  the  features, even  they  are  very  different  in  that  scale. For  example,  CV,  one  is  4.9,  another  is  1.2, big  difference,  excellent  student, actually  be  performing  student. The  difference  is  only  like  33. But  for  another  feature, another  feature,  the  height, one  is  one  A  five,  another  175. I  treat  a  different  different  ten. Then  will  dominate. In  the  descent  based  algorithm, because  when  we  c  the  descent, these  difference  are  considered  equal. They  consider all  the  features  considered  equal. But  because  of  the  different scales  of  the  feature, right  now  the  feature  with  the  big  values will  dominate  in  the  distance. Here,  give  some  examples  like  salary,  C  GP, the  salary,  and  60,000 yearly  income,  annual  income. These  are  like  6,000, 70  can  see  very  big  difference. If  we  use  a  decent  you  use who  the  original  value  to  the  distance,  no. 40  minus,  this  is  one  feature  in  the  salary. The  are  not  the  feature  in  the  GPA. Here  you  can  see  because  this  value  dif, very  big,  de  dominate  the  distance. D  dominate  the  distance. I  transform  to  the  similar  range through  the  facial  scaling. For  CGB,  it  is  range  around  one. Then  for  salary  also  around  one. Then  the  new  feature  will  dominate. This  is  the  example  that is  one  of  the  reasons  why we  should  perform  feature  scaling, and  we  should  actually  avoid  one  feature dominant  the  des  matric. Then  another  is the  gradient  descend  based  algorithm. Maybe  here  I  have  a  brief  introduction. You  may  know Machine  lining  models. The  lining  of  the  parameters  is  done  through the  tertive  line,  iterative. This  iterative  code  is called  grain  descent  based  algorithm, like  the  BP  be  propagation, lining  of  the  neural  networks, lining  of  the  generative  models, actually  all  based  on  is grad  descent  algorithm. Theta  is  just  one  parameter. I  mean  the  index  of  the  parameter, K  mean  the  step  because the  linear  is  step  by  step,  iterative. At  every  step,  we  perform  the  width  update, we  perform  the  parameter  update. The  update  is  either  p, the  second  term  minus  a,  linear  rate. L  is  a  loss  function. First  of  all  the  durat  loss  function with  respect  to  the  parameter  theta  i, then  times  the  input  xi. So  the  width  update  or the  permet  update  in the  second  term  in  the  right  hand  side. Depending  on  the  three  linear  rate, normally,  we  set  linear  at. The  same  linear  rate  for  all  parameters. Then  the  first  derivative of  the  gradient  that  times  xi. I  is  the  feature. You  can  imagine  for  the  CGP, this  XI  value three  point  something,  two  point  something. Even  for  the  salary  rate, C  something,  that  something. You  can  imagine  for  variable  for a  parameter  associated  with a  a  feature  with the  big  values  that  would  update  B. Because  I  is  very  big. The  w  update  is  very  big. Then  for  another  feature, the  w  update,  the  permit  update  is  small. At  a  very  big  or  significant  wid  update  or permit  update  could  result in  instability  of  the  lanu  process. Maybe  the  lining  will  finally diverge  network  converge. From  the  perspective,  we also  need  to  have  a  similar  range, similar  scale  for  all  samples. Then  the  w  to  update  the  scale  is similar  for  all  parameters  in  the  model. This  model  can  be  controlled  as small  to  ensure  the  stability of  the  linu  process. Then  finally,  the  parameter will  converge  to  a  certain  values. This  is  the  second  reason why  we  want  to  perform  facial  scaling. Here  we  talk  about  these  two  trinal  problems. Two.  The  examples  from the  perspective  of  these  two  examples, you  can  see  the  need for  data  or  fisial  scaling. Then  how  to  perform  facial  scaling. Here  the  first  method is  called  normalization. Normalization  here,  that  means  that  t, we  want  to  convert  the  data. No  matter  what  is  the  range of  the  original  values. After  normalization,  all  the  values  have  0-1. This  is  normalization. We  transform  the  data  to  the  range  0-1. This  is  the  mathematic  operation  that  we can  use  to  perform  this  transformation. Minimum  value  is  a  minimum  value. As  you  know,  all  the  auto  lies  are removed  before this  normalization  is  performed. All  the  mission  values  actually are  replaced  are  imputed. Then  I  think  that  issue  already  obtained. Here  this  data,  we  also  find  a  minimum  value, find  the  maximum  value. Then  we  use  this  x  is  the  original  value. The  raw  value. X  prime  is  a  transform  value. We  this  formula,  we  can  find  a  tree  if the  x  value  is  equal  to  the  minimum  value. If  we  substitute,  then this  x  prime  will  be  zero. If  this  x  raw  data, the  value  is  equal  to  the  maximum  value, then  the  numerica  denomint  the  same, then  this  to  will  be  one. Then  x  prime,  the  new  value, the  transform  value  will  be  one. The  minimum  value  is  transformed  to  zero, maximum  value  is  transformed  to  one. Then  values  between  maximum  and minimum  is  transformed  to  a  value  1-0. This  is  a  linear  transform. You  can  see  this  are  linear  transform, just  a  map  minimum  map  to  zero, maximum  map  to  one, then  all  other  values  is  map  to  a  value  0-1. This  method  is  called  normalization. We  transform  the  data  to  the  range  0-1. All  features  will  perform such  a  transformation. Then  all  features  are  in  the  same  range  0-1. This  is  a  first  technique for  feature  scaling. Another  technique  is  a  standardization. Standardization  is  something  we consider  data  follow  certain  distribution, and  then  after  normalization, we  hope  the  data  has  a  zero  mean. No  matter  originalism,  mean  value. After  this  standardization, the  mean  value  is  zero  for  feature. For  example,  originally,  know  the  salary, like  60,060,  40,  50, something  these  big  values. But  after  normalization, the  mean  value  will  come  to  zero. Then  some  values  will  be  above  zero. So  values  will  be  below  zero. The  value  to  the  value  will have  a  zero  me  up  to  sarization. They  follow  distribution,  zero  me. Also  for  the  spread,  What  is  the  range? Don't  have  a  specific  range, but  they  give  a  spread. The  spread  normally  we  measure  using a  standard  vision,  variance. After  the  standardization, the  data  should  have  a  zero  met. For  all  samples  along this  feature,  they  have  a  zero  me, and  then  at  have  a  standard  vision of  one.  Sigma  is  one. After  transformation, the  standard  vision  will  be  one, the  zero  the  me  will  be  zero. We  this  me  here  is the  mean  value  in  the  raw  data. Row  is  already  present,  not  really  the  rule, we  have  already  done  the known  like  the  handling, we  already  handled  the  mission  value and  also  the  talizer  problems. We  get  the  data.  The  value  there,  mean  value. Sima  the  standard  vision because  the  utalize  are  removed, this  mean  value  should  be a  robust  estimate  of  the  central  tendency. Simulate  for  Sigma,  is  a  robust  estimate of  the  dispersion  of  the  data. After  we  have  removed the  tias  after  we have  imputed  the  mission  values. Then  after  this  transform, we  get  a  new  feature, x  prime,  a  new  value. This  value  of  all  samples, we  have  a  zero  mean  standvion  of  one. Sandi  vision  normally  is a  is  a  matter  of  the  spread. But  based  on  value, not  necessary,  could  be  a  bigger  value. Could  be  a  smaller  value. This  is  standardization. But  in  the  literature, sometimes  two  terms  are  used  interchangeably. They  also  call  this  normalization. Sometimes  they  call  that  also  normalization. Based  on  the  convention  in  the  machine  nu, we  can  also  use  them  mia. But  we  need  to  understand these  different  transforms, will  convert  data  to a  zero  me  or  standard  ion  of  one, no  matter  what  the  name of  this  transformation. This  transformation  will  convert the  data  to  the  range  of  zero  to  one. No  matter  what  the name  of  this  transformation. Normalization  or  standardization. We  don't  need  to  this  too  much, but  we  know  they  will  transform the  data  in  these  ways. Okay.  And  so  with  these  terms I  use  the  train,  Yeah, sometimes  they  feel  confusing, they  use  a  different  terminology for  the  same  operations.  Okay. Next  we  talk  about  the  terminology  reduction. This  is  also  one  of  preposion. I  also  mentioned  before  we see  in  the  data  acquisition  stage, we  are  not  very  sure which  features  are  useful, and  which  features  are  redundant. We  have  no  idea  of  this. But  after  the  data  explosion, we  can  identify  some of  maybe  features  are  redundant. Some  of  the  features  may  be  irrelevant. If  we  remove  these  features  from  the  model, and  certainly  we  can  reduce the  complexity  of  the  model. We  can  reduce  the  number of  three  parameters  in  the  model, and  then  know  the  model  is less  likely  overfit  the  trend  of  data. Then  the  best  model  obtained could  genere  anal  beta. These  are  our  ation. If  the  data,  how  to  reduce  number of  reduce  the  number of  representation,  number  of  features. As  we  here  is  domint  reduction. Originally,  each  sample  is  represented by  100  dimensional  vector. After  dom  not  reduction, each  sample  is  represented maybe  by  a  ten  dimensional  vector. That  means  we  just  have  ten  features. Originally,  we  have  100  features. You  can  see  a  significant reduction  in  the  number  of  features, a  significant  reduction in  the  model  complexities. Either  a  dominoy  reduction, actually,  we  have  two  techniques. One  is  called  feature  etration. And  these  are the  commonly  used  approach for  dominar  reduction. I  then  I  believe  we're  all  familiar  with  this like  the  principal  component  analysis, PCA  or  singular  value  decomposition  SVD. These  are  the  commonly  used a  dominar  reduction  technique. This  method  also  surprise. We  don't  need  to  use  the  class  labels. These  methods  are  normally call  a  feature  station  method. Because  in  these  methods, we  create  new  features. We  create  new  features. Originally, we  have  100  features,  for  example, of  the  domino  reduction, we  create  ten  new  features. Each  feature  is  a  linear  combination  here, these  are  linear  operations. There  could  be  nine  linear  operations, nine  linear  dominal  reduction. Each  new  feature  is a  combination  of  all  the  hundred  features. Normally  in  the  feature  situation, the  new  features  are  menules. Because the  combination  of  the  original  feature. Just  imagine  we  have  feature  like  your  CGB, your  nationality,  your  gender. We  now  have  a  new  feature. You  CGB  times  0.5, plus  your  gender  march  plus 0.7  plus  your  body  weight  times  0.6. We  have  a  new  feature,  this  new  feature, a  combination  of  these  three  variables. What's  the  meaning  of  this  feature? Meaning  is. But  in  some  applications, we  hope  all  the  features  should  be interpretable  because  we  hope the  model  is  interpretable. The  feature  should  retain  the  original  men. But  in  this  feature  etation, we  create  new  features, then  all  the  menus  are  lost. To  address  this  problem, in  this  course,  we  will  not introduce  this  fish  station  method. I  know  in  this  fishie  striation  method I  introduced  in  other  courses. In  my  course,  this  course actually  introduce  another  technique, which  is  called  feature  subsclation. This  also  as  a  method  for  dominoy  reduction. I  this  method,  originally, for  example,  we  have  100  features. Of  the  dominoy  reduction, and  the  number  of  feature  is  ten. O  here,  the  original  is  five, the  feature  is  selation,  we  have  three. This  features  the  final  feature, which  will  be  including  the  model is  a  subset  of  the  original  features. This  feature  will  keep the  original  menu  of  the  features. This  is  a  so  called  feature  selection. We  a  subset  of  the  original  features. We  don't  create  new  features. A  advantage,  we  retain  the  meaning of  the  original  meaning  of  the  features. Then  the  model  based  on  these  kind  of features  are  more  interpretable,  right? In  this  course,  actually,  I will  actually  introduce the  facial  elation  as  a  reduction  technique. This  should  be  in  some  part  I  forgot  in which  week  but  in  one  week  will introduce  the  fish  subselation, as  a  dominolg  reduction  technique. These  are  the  three  prepsion, like  handling  the  scaling,  the  scaling, normalization  standardization  of  the  features to  transform  the  feature to  similar  scale  and also  the  minle  reduction through  the  fat  elation. A  feature  eation. These  are  another  prepsion. We  normally  perform. After  all  of  these  exploion, we  understand  the  features  better. The  type  of  the  features, we  also  identify  problems like  mission  value  and  also  the  alias, then  through  these  known  methods, we  have  handled  them  and also  we  identify  the  scales, the  different  scales  the  features, through  the  pre  pssions, we  scale  them  into  the  similar  range, and  also  through  the  feature  selection, we  reduce  the  minaltis. After  all  of  these  de  presion, also  the  handling  of  the  problems, we  get  a  data  set  with  a  high  quality. Then  this  data  set  will  be used  for  laning  of  a  model. Until  this  week,  we  assume all  the  data  are  properly  prepared. Next  week,  we  will  just  use this  well  prepared  data to  land  a  different  types  of  models. Today  I  lecture,  we  will  end  here. These  are  the  preparation  for the  data  preparation  of the  data  for  machine  learning. Assume  you  master  all  these  techniques. You  have  prepared  a  data  set  of  high  quality. Based  on  this  high  quality  data, we  could  le  a  high  quality  model, which  can  produce  reliable  predictions for  the  testing  data. I  think  that's  all  for  today. Thank  you  so  much. Tank.
