Okay. Good  evening,  everybody.  Before  we  start, let  me  go  through  these  announcements. So  for  your  quiz  one. So  this  was  set  out this  afternoon  and  just  now. The  quiz  one  will  happen  in  week  seven. Now  is  five.  Week  five. The  next  is  week  six. The  week  after  we  seven. We're  going  to  the  Quiz  one  on, September  on  Monday  we  seven during  the  lure  here  in  this  LP. And  the  topics  that  will  be covered  are  from  the  weeks  one  to  four. So  meaning  that  it  does  not  include today  as  well  as  next  week's  material. So  it  will  only  be  up  to  what  we discussed  last  week  on  the  ed  um  of  models. Yeah,  60  minutes  duration, and  this  will  be  using  the  NTN  Cis  format, which  means  that  we  will  be  using this  responders  lockdown  browser. Okay. So  some  of  you  may  be  familiar  with this  one  because  you  have taken  other  courses. So  nowadays  most  of  our  courses, we  use  the  tarn  is  and  the  lockdown  browser. Okay.  So  if  you  have  previously  in sol  and  tested  it  and  working,  you  be  fine. But  if  you  are  new, you're  probably  new  to  this, please  make  sure  you  spend  some  time to  get  the  lockdown  browser  install  and  test. So  I  have  a  mock  quiz that  has  been  set  up  for  you  to test  right  to  make  sure  that your  lockdown  browser  is  working  as  expected. So  please  make  sure  you install  and  test  it before  you  come  for  the  quiz. Otherwise,  you'll  be  too you  come  here  and  install  and  then you'll  take  a  long  time  and you  basically  lose  out  on  the  time,  right? So  yeah.  So  please  make sure  you  try  it  out  first, using  the  M  Pis. Even  for  those  of you  who  had  done  this  before, I  try  out  the  moot  pues  and  make  sure that  you  are  familiar with  this  Dog  dow  browser,  right? That  your  do  browser  is  looking fine  on  your  laptop  or  your  tablet. Yeah. Sorry.  I  think  I set  out  the  wrong  password that  now  in  the  afternoon, so  please  make  sure  you  use  the  updated  one. If  you  still  not  work  in,  let  me  know. Okay.  So  other  things  will  be the  A  size  record  set  so  you  can bring  in  one  A  size  record and  write  everything  on  me. But  no  sticky  notes  and  all  that. And  then  we'll  be  taking attendance  during  the  pie. So  please  I  bing  a  photo  ID. For  example,  your  passport  or  your  trig  ac. As  long  as  something  that  has a  photo  I  identify  you,  that's  fine. Yeah.  So  pre  install  browser. Okay.  Yeah. So  now  all  these  smart  grossers, please  don't  don't  wearing  smark  browsers. Okay.  Yeah.  Okay. The  rest  of  cos  some  information to  download  the  do  browser, some  information  on  these  lock  down  browser. You  can  take  a  look.  So  the  Maze. The  Miz  is  you  be able  to  see  quiz  one  over  here. So  we  will  click  only, you  should  be  able  to  enter  and  then  try  out. So  yeah,  I  strongly  encourage  you  to  try  out the  biz  because  the  actual  quiz itself  will  use  the  same  kind  of  format. Asking  you  to  fill  in  the  blanks. So  you  try  out  and  make, you  know,  I  mean, because  this  is  using the  qui  quiz  format,  right. So  sometimes  you  enter  in  a  strange  way, you  cannot  recognize  the  answer that  may  be  wrong,  okay? So  please  try  out  to  test  I  mean, don't  don't  try  to  something  funny. You  know,  if  the  answer is  why  it  does  why,  right? Don't  like,  you  know, I  don't  have  some  other  funny  symp Okay  Then  then  should  be  no  problem.  Okay. So  try  out  so  that  you  have  for  video  with the  format  would  be expected  right  for  example,  this  one, ask  you  to  enter  the  what's  td  states  in the  PM  the  question  is n  here  and  then  we  are supposed  to  figure  out what  are  the  ltd  states, what  are  the  emission  states inside  the  PM  Mm. So  we  try  to  make  the  answer  in such  a  way  that  you  can  accommodate  spaces. No,  you  try  to  er  in the  usual  way  don't  try  to sett  try  to  use. Then  this  m  try  out the  izz  t  be able  to  see  whether you  get  it  right  or  wrong. Okay.  Yeah. So  that's  a  Okay. Another  thing  is  that  I  have some  practice  problems  for  you  to try  out  also  for  the  review. There  are  four  practice  problems  here. Basically,  to  summarize  the  things that  the  covered  and  we  will  be  going over  the  review  on  16th  September. So  I  think  16th  September,  Okay? Ten  by  in  the  morning. These  will  be  recorded  for those  of  you  who  can  attend, you  most  welcome  to  attack  via the  online  teams  on  16,  September  10:00  A.M. And  then  Yeah. And  of  course,  come  to the  review  with  any  questions that  you  want  to  clarify. So  we'll  be  down  on  the  teams. All  right.  That's  the  main  things I  want  to  go  over  in  terms  of  announcement. Okay.  So  last  week, we  were  talking  about  Markov  models and  Hither  Markov  models. So  basically,  these  were  models  we  used  to mo  model  temporal  relationships, temporal,  right. So  for  example,  things  like your  data  are  sequences  or  time  series. We  can  use  this  markup  model  or either  markup  model  to  model  it. And  basically, we  went  through  the  specification, the  distribution  specification for  both  of  them. This  one  is  the  Marko  chain  model, Mark  model,  and  then  you  have  the  HMM. HMM  will  have  a  The  Zs  are  the  latent  states, and  then  he  has  the  emission at  s  that  you  observed,  right. And  the  Zs  are the  one  that  forms  the  marker  chain. So  at  the  latent  states  are  the  marker  chain. So  you  have  a  latent  mark  of  chain. Whereas  the  emissions  are  not  mark  off. So  then  yeah.  So  we we  saw  how  this  model  works. And  then  we  also talked  about  how  to  find  the  optimal,  right? The  the  optimal  model  parameters. Optimal  model  parameters. ID,  we  want  to  find  either  the  MLE  or the  MAP  estimates  of  these  model  parameters. But  as  we  saw, for  the  make  chain, the  mako  model,  you  can  use  the  MLE  and  MAP. Because  this  is  a  very  simple  model. So  mako  model  is  okay. But  for  the  hidden  markov  model, right  run  into  the  same  problem as  we  saw  for  the  mixture  model, so  we  have  to  use  the  EM  algorithm. So  for  the  HMN  model, we  have  a  special  version  of this  EM  algorithm  called the  bone  wash  algorithm. That  because  we  saw  that  to  derive the  EN  sta  inside this  EM  algorithm  is  a  no  trivial  involved. So  people  give  it  a  special  neme  that's  so So  the  so  this  long  watch  algorithm  allows  us to  find  to  estimate we  cannot  find  find  exactly, but  to  estimate  the  MLE  or  the  MAP. Today  we  are  going  to  six  data  bit. In  the  last  few  weeks, we  basically  talked  about  how  to model  your  data using  different  distributions. You  have  the  standard  distribution, the  singles  one,  and then  we  have  Mite  models, with  slightly  more  complex. That  is  another  higher level  than  the  standard, whereby  we  combine  multiple  distributions together  to  form  mite  models. And  then  we  have  the  mako  models  and hidden  mako  models  where  we  want to  now  model  the  temporary  relationship. These  few  weeks,  we're  all  talking about  how  to  model  the  data. In  the  coming  next  two  weeks, we  are  going  to  now  focus on  how  to  find  the  model  parameters. Although  we  have  learned  like,  you  know, this  is  what's  that  the  ideal, the  ideal  ones  that  we want  to  find  and  we  have  also seen  some  approximation algorithms  to  find  them, but  That  is  not  sufficient. Because  as  you  can  see  that even  with  all  these  approximation  algorithm, we  still  need  a  way  to  be  able  to  write  down. For  example,  in  the  eat  what  the expectation  that conditional  expectation  looks  like. After  we  can  write  it  down alicly  in  some  form, we  can  then  try  to  optimize  it. Then  that's  not the  most  general  one  that  you  can  have. We  are  going  to  try  to  address  that  gap. Starting  from  this  week  as  well  as next  week  by  using  sampling  techniques. This  sampling  and  MCMC  technique will  then  allow  you  to  work  with almost  any  distion  or any  model  that  you  want  to  work  with. So  there  will  be  a  lot  less  retriions, and  you  can  basically  think  of  these using  the  sampling  techniques  as  one  way, one  way  to  be  able  to approximate  your  optimal  model  habits. Wet  having  to  worry  whether  you  can deride  them  analytically  a. This  will  be  the main  goal  of  these  two  weeks. Okay.  Let's  do  some  i like  why  we  need  this  se  technique. For  example,  in  this  application, I  have  a  image, a  binary  image  for each  pizza  value  is  either  minus  one  or  one. So  for  example,  your  minus one  is  a  white  color, one  is  a  black  color. This  is  your  image  binary  image. But  What  you  observe is  a  noisy  version  of  this  binary  image. You  see  that  it  is  a  very  noisy  version, and  we  hope  to  come  up  with some  mose  learning  algorithm, to  be  able  to  noise. Remove  the  noise  and  hopefully recover  the  clean  image. Your  noisy  image  is  given  by  y, y  to  represent  the  noisy  image and  what  will  recover  the  image. You  will  recall  if  I'm  doing  for  example, the  MAP  at  I  want  to maximize  the  posterior  probability of  z  given  y, y  is  the  one  that  observe  and  then if  we  can  compute  the  posterior  probability, then  I  can  try  to  find a  z  that  maximize  this  potion. Okay.  Let's  see  how  we can  try  to  compute  this  posterior. As  usual,  we  try  to  use  this  So  your  given  Y. So  we  can  try  to  use  base  rule  to  write  it a.  That's  your  base  rule. Using  Base  rule,  we  can  now  decompose  it  into a  hole  as  well  as a  tile  of  course  at  the  bottom, the  PDF  of  Y  itself. We  can  try  to  model the  using  some  deism  model. In  this  case,  this  hood  is  using a  very  simple  likelihood  whereby  we assume  that  given  the  actual  the  ground troth  value  of  the  z,  the  pixel  value. We  assume  that  each  of  the  pixel is  corrupted  independently  on  the  others. Basically,  this  guy  can  be  decomposed  as a  product  of  the  individual  probability. This  is  where  your  independence  happens. The  Y  G  only  depends  on  G. Z  is  a  clean  pizza. Y  is  a  noisy  pizza. We  assume  that  J  is  only  affected  by  the  J, not  affected  by  all  the  other  pizzas. A  very  specific  model  that  may use  of  we  will  assume  that  it's  dozing. Basically,  here  we  are saying  that  we  are  adding some  dozing  noise  to  the original  G.  Z  is  a  clean  pizza, and  then  we  add  some  dozing  noise to  each  pizza  independent. When  you  add  a  dozing  noise, Independent  then  every  pizza  will  have some  noise  on  top and  you  will  see  this  noisy  image. Okay.  So  yeah, the  corruption  with  goal  signals, this  won't  happen independently  at  each  pizza. This  is  a  what's  reasonable  model that  we  as  to  make  things  simple. But  the  problem  is  that  the  PZ, this  is  a  pier  probability  that  we  want  to impose  on  the  distribution  of  the  piers. If  you  look  at  the  image. So  this  is  a  abstract  representation of  the  pixels  inside  the  image. If  you  look  at  one  pizzel  value, you  can  see  that  it's  actually highly  correlated  with the  neighboring  pizzel  value, for  example,  you  will  take  for  example, a  black  pixel  over  here, you  can  see  that its  neighbors  are  all  black  pixels. If  you  take  a  white  pixel  over  here, then  all  its  neighbors are  also  white  pixels  as  well. So  there's  a  high  correlation  between the  pizzel  value  as  well  as  its  neighbors. So  in  order  to  capture  this  whole  revision, we  can  not  assume  that this  PZ  is  can  be  broken  down  in an  independent  way  the  ho is  okay  because  we  are just  assuming  that  each  piece  has a  corruption  that  is  independent  of  the  rest. Whereas  the  P  Z, it  doesn't  make  sense  to  say  that the  PZ  values  are all  independent  of  each  other. If  it  is  independent of  each  other  you  are  not  going to  get  what  you  are  going  to  get  is actually  not  say  something  very  noisy. We  need  a  reasonable  pyro  that  can model  the  relationship between  the  neighboring  pixs. But  the  problem  is  that  if  we  use a  pyro  distribution  that includes all  these  neighboring  core  relationships. You  will  not  be  able  to  decompose this  guy  into  a  single  product. Then,  basic  going  to  get a  very  high  dimensional probability  distion  over  here. So  every  pixel  value  is going  to  depend  on  a  lot of  other  pixel  values. You  cannot  just  decompose  them  easily. This  makes  the  pose  distribution become  a  very  high  dimensional  distrition, and  it's  not  possible to  try  to  have  a  analytical  form  for  it. For  example,  when  we're doing  the  EM  algorithm. If  we  use  the  EM  algorithm, we  want  to  in  the  E  set, we  are  supposed  to  compute an  expectation  with respect  to  some  estimated conditional  distrition. Whatever  distribution  we're  using, If  it's  very  high  dimensional, it  becomes  very,  very  difficult  to directly  try  to  compute  that  expectation. Okay. So  yeah, which  makes  it  impossible  to write  down  in  mathematical  form, right,  what  the  expectation  looks  like. And  then  to  try  to  to  even to  go  to  the  next  step  right the  step  to  maximize  it. Even  if  you  want  to  try to  maximize  this  posterior. Let's  say  I  won't  find the  MAP  directly  without  using  the  EM to  find  is  also  impossible because  this  is  high dimensional  distribution. That  is  somehow  trying  to  use a  generic  that  a  generic  optimization algorithm  s  over the  whole  high  dimensional  space in  some  way  to  try  to  maximize  this  dister. But  that  will  be  quite  inefficient. We  want  to  see  how  to  do this  in  a  more  efficient  way. Okay.  So  the  gua  is  actually  very  simple. So  come  up  with  this  idea that  even  though  I  cannot. I  cannot  write  down  even  if  I  can't  even write  out  this  distribution in  analytical  form. For  example  if  the  pire  is  quite  complicated, you  can't  write  down in  suitable  way  you  try  to  optimize  it. If  we  can  sample  from  it, then  we  can  actually  approximate  it. Sampling  from  it  means  if  I  can  draw  samples, I  think  this  is  a  probability  distribution. I  can  draw  samples  from  here, I  accumulate  all  the  samples. I  can  make  use  of the  samples  to  do  a  lot  of  things, for  example,  to  estimate  the  expectation. There's  a  whole  idea  behind  it. Basically  for  this  two  is  we're going  to  focus  on  how  to  do  this  sampling. Okay.  So  starting  from  the  singles  method. And  next  week  we  will  talk  about  the  one  of the  most  powerful  algorithms  which  is all  the  map  color  technique  MCMC. But  this  we  have  to focus  build  up  the  foundation, starting  from  the  singles  one. This.  So  we  are  going  to  see  how to  sent  from  the  standard  distribution. Of  course,  this  will  not  be  I  mean, immediately  explicitly  useful  for  our  task. If  you  are  trying  to  find the  MAP  estimate  or  the  expectation. If  it's  a  standard  distribution, you  can  do  it  directly. You  can  do  the  optimization, take  the  t,  and  do  it  directly. But  We  are  still going  to  learn  how  to  sample  on  them because  eventually  we  will make  use  of  the  sampling  of the  sand  distributions  in more  sophisticated  techniques  which will  be  up  from  here.  Okay. Yeah.  In  your  basic  inference, the  close  one  of  the  pal is  only  usually  available. For  this  thing  called  concrete  ys. I  you  recall  from  our  big  one. We  talked  about  concrete  ys whereby  if  you  happen  to have  a  happen  to be  very  lucky  and  be  able  to  choose  a  py, contribute  py  in  such  a  way, that  the posterior  your  posterior  distribution has  form  comes  from  the  same  family. Same  distribution. Family  as  the  pyro  as  PC. Then  these  mo  the  cong  py. But  of  course,  these can  only  penia  very  lucky, right?  Very  specific  distributions. We  saw  for  the  bony  distribution, we  had  to  use  the  beta, Theta  by  distribution  together with  the  what's  that  the binomial  lucky  and  then you  had  to  use  the  beta  as  the  py, then  you  get  that,  that beta  distribution  the  posterior will  also  be  a  beta. But  this  will  only  happen in  various  sic  cases. So  if  you  go  to  i  in  fact, you  can  see  a  table  and the  table  is  not  there's  a  table  on distributions  and  what  are  the  so  called  post ys  and  you  can see  that  that  table  is  actually  very  small. I  only  applies  to some  very  probably  distribution. But  most  of  our  data  is  always  going  to follow  that  those  few probably  distribution  time. We  want  something  that  is small  general  that  can  work. For  any  general  distributions  or models  that  we  want  to  work  with. Our  focus  is  how  to  deal  with this  high  dimensional  distributions. Basically,  for  example,  if I'm  trying  to  find  the  expectation of  F  x  where  x  is distributed  according  to some  high  dimensional  distribution. In  fact,  what  we  all  we  need  to do  is  to  s  I  ID sables  independent  and  identically distributed  samples  from  the  distribution. So  I  give  you  a  distribution  if  I  can. Somehow  draw  I  IDs and  birth  on  this  distribution, then  to  estimate  the  expectation, all  I  need  to  do  is  to take  this  epic  average. And  this  is  in  fact, this  is  quite  a  good  estimate. This  is  true  mathematically  as proven  under  this  thing called  the  stronger  or  large  numbers. This  is  one  of  the  long  nice  results  in probability  theory  proven  by  combo of  volume  if  I  saps  I  take  aggregate  average. If  my  do  sample  is  large  enough  speed  enough. Then  this  aggregate  aguage will  become  very  close  to the  real  expected  value  the  real  expectation. Even  though  you  don't  serve  as the  expectation  in  advance, you  all  you  need  to  do  is  withdraw the  samples  and  then just  take  the  trigger  average. Okay. Then  of  course,  the  next  question  is, how  can  we  draw  the  centers? These  are  very  nice  results, but  how  can  we  draw  the  centers? So  start  off  with  low  diction  dist. Bass  one  diction  of  two  digs. And  this  is  b  in  generally  Mont  Co  center. So  Mont  Coan  associated  with probably  Monte  Carlo  I think  is  the  name  of  Italian  to,  right? Yeah.  And  probably  the  low  car  signals sorry  people  call  it  sling. Yeah.  But  we  will  talk about  Marco  Shao  technique, MCMC  high  dimension  distributions. Yeah,  but  this  is  not  going  to was  we're  going  to  make  use of  the  cycling  techniques  or standard  distributions  as  the sub  routes  in  the  more  complex. Okay.  So  what  do  I  mean  by? When  is  a  seen  procedure considered  to  be  value. If  if  you  tell  me  you anyhow  come  up  with  some  value, tell  me  that  this  is  a  sample from  a  DWS  distribution. There's  no  way  I  can  say  you  wrong. I  mean,  all  I  can  do  is  to  believe that  really  semper from  the  dome  distribution. I  just  me  one  value. By  sling  we  don't  means  that  a  single  value. From  a  distribution.  So  by  scram, we  mean  a  procedure. We  are  trying  to  find  an algorithm  or  procedure  in such  a  way  that  if  I  use this  procedure  to  draw  many, many,  many  sep  from  this  distribution, the  sb  after  I  draw  them. I  form,  for  example,  this  cyta  histogram. This  histogram  has  to be  a  very  good  approximation of  the  actual  PDF  that  I'm  sampling  from. Then  I  can  say  that  this is  a  valid  sampling  procedure. Generate.  I  won't  come  up  with  a  procedure, and  then  some  use  of this  procedure  generate  samples a  runs  and  then  compute the  histogram  and  must look  like  the  target  PDF. The  only  then  I  can  say  that this  sampling  procedure  is a  valid  one  actually  samples  from  this  PDF. It's  not  a  bad  on. A  few  samples  or  a  single  sector. So  for  example,  you  can  see  in  this  case, I  apply  the  seclin  procedure  over  here. I  can  actually  approximate this  PDF  quite  well. Whereas  if  I  use another  totally  different  procedure, only  manage  sample  from  this  part,  right? Me  out  this  part.  This  sel  procedure here  is  not  valid  we  cannot  say that  this  is  a  seclin  procedure for  this  particular  PDF.  Only  this  one. Okay.  So  then  the  question  is  like, how  can  we  ensure that  your  scoring  procedure  is  valid. So  the  most  sure  answer that  you  can  get  is  to actually  prove  mathematically  prove that  your  procedure  is  valid. So  this  is  a  part  where  just  doing the  dy  is  not  going  to be  sufficient  for  the  purposes. So  to  say  that  procedure  is  valid, we  have  to  actually  use  logic and  to  prove  that  it's  actually  valid. But  of  course,  another  pri  approach  is, we  basically  try  to  sample meds  thousands  and  medion of  samples  from  this  procedure and  see  whether  we  match  the  PDA. But  one  problem  is  that sometimes  we  don't  even  know  what  the  PDS. We  have  in  a  lot  of  cases, the  sample  from  something  that  we don't  know  the  actual  PDF. So  there's  no  way  to  verify. The  surest  way  to  verify  that the  sampling  method  is valid  is  actually  proved that  it  is  indeed  valid. We'll  see  how  we  do  that.  The  syncls one  is  over  here. Let's  start  off  with  the  sympls sampling.  Okay. So  this  is  the  case where  we  assume  that  we  have  a  CDF. So  accumulative  distribution  function. So  remember,  your  CDF is  the  probability  that your  random  variable  is mom  than  some  thresh  X. So  this  is  called  the  CDF. So  that's  assume,  in  the simplest  we  are  trying to  seple  from  this  known CDF  something  that  is. So  the  CDF  is  given. I  want  to  set  from  the  CDF. Here,  what  we're  going  to do  is  to  first  of  all, we're  going  to  selle from  a  uniform  distribution. For  now,  let's  assume  that  we can  selle  from  a  uniform  distribution. You  can  imagine  this  uniform  distribution is  the  simplest  one  that  you  can  have. Let's  assume  that  some  way  to  sele  from. If  I  can  sent  from  E  and then  I'm  able  to compute  the  inverse  CDF  function. This  is  a  part  may not  be  valid  all  the  time  because  a  lot of  CDF  not  a  syncs  this is  in  a  very  special  case  where a  CDF  has  a  very  nice  form. You  can  somehow  find the  inverse  function  of  the  CDF  F  inverse. What  we  are  going  to  do  is to  be  F  inverse  of. I  sent  from  form, then  I  apply  f  inverse  of  this  ser. The  claim  is  that  this  will  give you  x  will  have  the  distribution, that  you  are  looking  for  the  target distribution,  the  target  CDF. How  to  prove  that? Let's  try  to  verify  that this  particular  set  is  indeed the  CDF  of  this  particular  x  is  equal  to  x. If  that's  the  case,  that  means  this  has the  same  distribution  as this  CDF  that  I'm  trying  to  sec  from. Okay.  Let's  try  to  verify  this. To  find  the  CDF  of  this  set, without  p  in  the  F  inverse  of  U,  inside  here. Since  F  is  invertible, we  can  now  inside  here. This  is  equivalent  to  saying, this  is  so  I  can  apply the  F  function  on both  sides  of  the  inequality. Now  I  look  at  the  what  set. The  form  distribution.  What's  the  CDF of  the  uniform  distribution  0-1. This  CDF  over  here, the  CDF  of  the  uniform  distribution  will be  integrating  from  zero  to  t, maybe  that's  called  zero  to  the  PDF, and  then  say  the  t.  Basically, if  I  have  a  U  tres  I'm  basically  finding, what's  the  probability  mass  from  zero  up  to. The  CDF  will  be  exactly  equals  to  e  one. The  CDF  of  your  uniform  distribution is  always exactly  equals  to  the  threshold  value. This  U  is  smaller  than  what  ever  threshold. This  will  be  exactly.  This  is this  guy  is  a  CDF  of  U, smaller  than  some  threshold. So  the  answer  will  be  exactly  F  X. What  we  have  proven  here.  We  have proven  that  if  I  use  this, I  transform  the  U  using  F  inverse, then  the  CDF  of  this  x  over here  is  exactly  equal to  f  x,  which  is  what  we  want. This  prove  that  this  procedure indeed  generates a  random  arder  or  a  random  from  this  CDF  f  x. So  we  see  you  see  this  singers  here. We  know  it  may  be  that  is distributed  according  to  this  target. T  will  summarize  first  all  center  uniform 0-1,  Okay. So  how  to  do  that, right?  So  it  turns  out  that. This  is  the  simplest  one that  that  we  can  do,  right? So  this  has  been  implemented  in,  for  example, in  your  Python  libraries, is  basically  the  rand  function,  right? And  what  people  do  is  to  come  up  with some  called  pseudo  random  number  generator. In  order  to  to center  from  these uniform  distributions  you  want. As  you  know  from  the  name  pudo  random,  right? It  means  that  it's  not  S  radio  random, but  But  the  computer  scientists have  come  up  with  all  these  techniques  in order  to  make  sure  that  your  single  random number  generator  is  able  to statistically  able  to  approximate the  truly  random  number  generator. Right?  I  see.  Yeah.  In  terms of  some  of  the  most  important  statistics. So  that's  why. Although  but  technically, we  are  not  able  to  actually read  the  spor  from  this  random  record  unless you  somehow  maybe  sign using  quantum  computers,  you  can  do  that. But  as  of  now, we  technically  we  cannot,  but  as  humans, we  are  able  to  be  able  to  generate all  the  random  number  of  that  is actually  in  terms  of  the  statistics, is  very  close,  is  the  same  as  the  random. So  we  are  going  to  make  use  of  that  and assume  that  generate  all  these  uniform  sales. This  one  will  be  from  you. The  ring  function,  right. You  pit  library  has this  ran  function  that you  can  make  use  of  to  generate  this. So  Oce  weenerate  the  the  U  then we  apply  f  inverse you  what  f  inverse  apply  it, and  this  will  immediately give  you  a  saner  from  F. The  python  okay. So  the  exact  name  is  under this  package  or  rand  and the  function  is  also  called  ngo  dong. There's  a  rector  for  it. You  can  also  use  uniform. And  then  you  can  see  that  all  the  other all  the  other  sing  functions  that are  provided  in the  python  library  is  actually making  use  of  this  one  at the  at  the  background. You  go  and  do  at  the  co. He  eventually  he  has  to  call this  one  way  and  maybe apply  the  as  a  burs  to  get  for  example, something  else  that  you  want. CDF  may  not  always be  invertible  or  have  a  nice  home. If  my  CDF  is very  smooth  that  looks  like  this, then  I  can  find  the  inverse, you  will  have  a  unique  inverse  function. Whereas  for  example,  the  CDF  has  a  job, it's  possible  that  the  CDN  has. In  this  case,  if  it's  smooth  and has  a  jot  okay, you  can  find  the  inverse  function  that  BC  is all  the  values  of  U  in  this  will all  be  mat  to  the  second  pre  image. Whereas  the  over  here, then  there  are  many  psi  there  are many  ps  inverse  values. That's  why  this  may  not  be but  we  are  going  to  use  the cash  inverses  that  one. The  F  ins  to  be the  value  that  is  the  smallest  one, the  smallest  one  that  satisfies the  f  equals  to  smaller  equals  to  u. Okay.  So  these  are  supplementary. But  yeah.  Let's  go  at  a  special  example. This  is  a  case  where  you have  a  very  nice  CDM. Here  is  I  want to  center  from  this  exponential  distrition. So  your  exponential  diriion,  your  PDF,  right? You  PDF  is  for. Okay.  So  your  CDF  will  be  the integral  from  zero  up  to  how  far. So  you  are  going  to get  one  minus  times. This  is  your  CDF. C  one  is  actually  easy  to  find  the  inverse, so  you  can  let  u  equals to  this  guy  and  then  find  x  in  s  of. So  that's  how  we  find  the  inverse. So  that's  how  you  can  find  the  inverse. So  your  F  inverse  of  u  would be  minus  one  of  one  minus  u. So  in  order  to  center from  this  epon  distribution. So  with  that  center  from  your  uniform. And  then  I  apply f  inverse  of  which is  juste  apply  this  function. F  into  this  function, and  that  will  give  you a  center  from  the  eponal  distribution. Okay. And  one  is  your  B. So  if  I'm  trying  to  center  from your  Bo  distribution,  this  binary  distriion. So  your  probability  of x  equals  to  one  equals  to  data, and  then  your  probability  of  x equals  to  zero  is  one  minus  data. We  see  that  in  this  case, the  CDF  is  not  so  Basic the  CDF  is  going  to  zero. W  zero  is  going  to  jump  up  by  one  minus  data. So  it  will  jump  up  by  one  minus  data. Then  it  will  stay  flat  Be  there's nothing  the  cannot  take any  value  0-1,  it's  either  zero  or  one. So  we  can  stay  flat  until  it hits  one,  when  it  hits  one, then  it's  going  to  jump  up  again  by  data. The  probability  mass  is  data. Okay.  So  this  is  a  CDF.  This  is  our. This  is  a  part  where  we  need  to  be  using the  CDO  inverse  is  not  smooth. So  what's  the  s  inverse. Basically,  if  I  give  you  a  U  value. If  I  give  you  one  value  in  my  U  0-1. If  my  U  happens  to  fall  here  0-1  minus  data. So  if  u  is  0-1  minus  theta, then  my  pedo  inverse. Basically,  all  the  values  here, all  the  values  here, the  pedo  inverse  will  mat  to  zero. Basically,  we  are  looking  at  the smaller  value  so  that the  f  of  this  value will  be  at  least  bigger  or  equals  to  u. So  all  the  s  down  here  will  get  map  to  zero. Your  F  inverse  of  u  here  will  equals  to  zero. And  then  if  my  U  is  above  one  minus  stata. For  example,  u  is  somewhere  here. You  can  see  that  now if  my  u  is  somewhere  here, then  it's  all  going  to  map  to  one. So  if  E  is  bigger  than  one  month  data. Then  F  inverse  of  u  will  equals  to  one. That's  basically  how  you  generate  bu  equal. Basically,  we  are  going  to  generate  a  u that  is  uniform  between  01. Then  we're  going  to  say  that this  bn  is  going  to  be  equals  to  zero, whatever  that  are  generated is  0-1  minus  theta. And  then  it  is  equals  to  one  otherwise. One  minus  theta. So  you  can  see  that  indeed this  will  have  probability one  minus  data,  right. Because  this  is  uniform. So  the  probability  of  U  0-1  minus  data, you  take  the  integral  0-1  minus  data  of  one. This  will  be  exactly equals  to  one  minus  data. So  this  guy  this  guy  has probability  probability one  minus  data,  which  is  correct. And  this  revision, right,  this  vision  will  have. We'll  have  probability  data. Which  is  exactly  what  we  want. The  probability  of  t  equals  one  is  data and  probability  of  t  equals to  zero  is  one  minus  data. Okay. Okay.  So  that's  how  you  generate  your  b. So  you  can  see  that  in  a  lot  of the  implementation  right  when  we  are  trying to  do  this  categorical  variables. So,  by  one  special  case and  you  have  two  classes, you  basically  see  where  your do  variable  falls  in  which  part  in which  vision  of  the  between and  one  be  fall  inside. So  bas  generate  a  categorical  distriion. So  example  I  want  to  generate  category. Say  data  one,  data  two  output  data k.  All  I  need  to  do  is  same  as  before, I  divide  the  intervals U  to  one  according to  the  probability  value  site. This  one  will  have  data  one, this  is  data  two,  then, data  three,  and  so  on  until  Data  K. Then  you  see  where  your  f. If  you  have  force  in  which  region, then  you  will  say  that your  render  variability  category do  variability  is  equals  to that  in  that  value  of  the  region. In  general,  s  for the  singles  distributions  that  you  can  deal with  you  can  see  in  all  these  cases, we  are  able  to  find  the  inverse  inverse. But  of  course, that  is  not  going  to  happen  all  the  time. A  it  pies  and  do  that. Another  technique  you  can  make  use  of  is to  if  you  are  able  to  find the  relationship  between  y  and  x. For  example,  you  know  that  y  equals  to  x, then  in  order  to  generate  the  y, you  just  have  to  generate the  x  and  then  apply the  function  that  will allow  you  to  generate  the. The  key  point  is  how  to  find  the  function. How  to  verify  that this  is  the  correct  function. We  can  actually  compute  the  PDF  of  y. If  y  goes  to  F  x, then  the  PDF  of  y  must be  related  to  the  PDF  of  x  in  this  way. So  basically  is  the  transformation  far. If  I  have  a  F. This  can  be  something that  is  very  complicated, can  be  some  rang  function  F  x. Then  I  do  at  each  value  of  one. I  can  solve  for  y equals  to  five  the  roots  of  this  equation. This  would  be  my  X  one, this  would  be  X  two, this  would  be  t  three,  and  so  on. It  can  have  many  roots,  that's  five. By  solving  this  equation, you'll  get  all  these  solution. And  then  the  transformation  formula tells  you  that  the  PDF  of y  will  be  exactly  equals to  taking  the  PDF  of x  evaluated  at  each  of  these  roots, and  then  divided  by the  first  order  derivative  of  the  function  F. Also  evaluated  at  the  roots. And  then  I'm  summing  over  all  the  roots. I  one  to  So there's  a  relationship  between this  P  Y  and  this  P. So  this  function  formation  formula  is useful  for  you  for  example, if  you  are  trying  to  work  out what's  the  PDF  of  Y. If  I  tell  you  what's  the  PDF  of  X, I  tell  you  what's  the  function  F.  I can  find  out  the  PDF  of  Y. But  for  our  purpose, is  kind  of  the  other  way  around. I'm  interested  to  center from  some  P  Y,  right. So  if  I  can  find a  way  find some  function  F  so  that  this  is  true, then  I  can  center  from  the  X easily  and  then  apply  the  F  to  the  x. This  is  basically  a  way  for  you to  verify  the  relationships. We  see  that  is  quite  complicated  error  is  it requires  you  to  know the  alergical  form  or  the  solutions, or  the  SI,  how  to  find  all  these  SIs, as  well  as  being  able  to  take the  first  order  dat  this  function. One  single  example  here, if  I  linear  transformation, y  eques  to  E  plus  D. So  my  function  here  is x  equals  to  e  x  plus  b. If  I  take  the  first  order  derivative, d  would  be  us  A. Then  to  find  find the  solution  y  equals  to  e  x  plus  B. Here  we  are  lucky  we  have  only  one  solution. There's  only  one  solution, so  x  has  to  be  a  y  minus  b  divided  by  A. This  assuming  A  is  not. There's  only  one  solution  here. The  PDF  of  y, then  there  is  only  one  solution. Is  the  PDF  of  x evaluated  at  least  one  single  solution, y  minus  b  a  way  divided  by the  prie  absolute  value  of  the  a  prime. This  A  can  be  negative. A  can  be  negative  now  because  I'm  taking. Your  PD  is  still  post. That's  how  you  can  find the  PDF  of  a  linear  function of  a  random  ager. You  can  see  basic  the  PDF  of  the  x. You  basically  you  translate and  scale  at  the  top, you  are  basically  translating by  B  and  then  scaling  by  A. So  example  here,  if let's  say  your  x  is  uniform  01, then  this  near  transformation will  give  you  back another  uniform  distribution. If  you  start  off  with P  X  as  uniform  between  01, I  f  A,  I  f  A  and  then  also  by  B. You  can  see  that  originally  PDF  is  0-1. Originally,  my  PDF  has  no  zero  value  0-1. So  that's  the  uniform  zero. Now  with  the  linear  transformation, A  plus  B,  this becomes  a  new  uniform  distribution. But  now  between  is another  uniform  distribution, but  between  B  and  A  plus B  and  the  height  becomes  b  over  eight. So  I  basically  shipping the  PDF  and  scaling  it  as  well. Scaling  it  by  eight. Okay. Any  questions  so  far? All  right.  Okay. So  looking at  a  slightly  more  comp  example  now. I  have  a  s.  Y  s.  So  your  F  is  square. So  is  two. Then  here  qu  equals  to  y. So  now  you  have  two  solutions. So  we  have  X  one  equals  to  minus square  root  y  and then  two  equals  to  plus  square  root. So  you  have  two  solutions. So  PDF  P  the  PDF of  y  will  now  have two  parts  su  has  two  parts. So  The  first  one  correspond  to  one. P  of  X  one  is  minus  root  one. And  then  divided  by  two  times  minus  squared. The  second  term  is  squa y  divided  by  two  times  p  squared  y. Then  we  can  simplify B  we  are  taking  absolute  value, the  two  are  actually  the  same  then  you are  left  with. Okay. So  this  is  a  way  to  allow  you to  easily  find  the  PDF  of  Y. What  is  the  relationship  between  S  Y? I  can  easily  find  the  PDF  of  Y  in  terms  of the  PDF  of  S.  Okay. Let's  find  some  qu. Okay.  So  this  occasionally  you  should be  able  to  find  a  inverse  function. Okay.  I  think  most  of  you  have  t.  Okay. So,  we  try  to  find  the  s.  So  I can  you  this  guy. This  indicator  function  is as  to  say  that  the  CDF equals  to  zero,  the  s  zero. So  basically,  CDF  is  going  to  be zero  all  the  way  until  you  reach  zero. And  then  a  zero,  you  will  cut  in the  equal  zero,  still  zero, then  this  will  then  go  up, and  then  if  you  at  this  function, you  will  actually  approach  to  one. You  will  never  hit  one  a  ho  infinity, then  you  approach  to. In  other  case,  this  is  We  can solve  this  equation  for  x  in  terms  of  u. So  you  have  this guy  minus  u. So  if  you  take  square. So  that's  how  you  get. Is  function.  So  you  answers  three. Okay. Here  we  are  trying  to  semble from  this  uniform  distribution. Of  course,  you  can  always finding  the  F  inverse. Of  course  you  will  need  to  find  the  CDF  and then  find  the  F  inverse. That's  one  way  to  do  it. Yeah,  I  encourage  all  of  you  to try  out  and  see  what  it  looks  like. That  is  is  more  tedious. This  is  where  your  transformation  formula plays  a  useful  role. So  you  can  see  that  here  as  we  saw  now. This  guy  is  busy  following  this  example  here. So  my  original  uniform  distribution from  to  one  now  is  transformed. I  want  it  to  be  going 5-8  this  has  length  one, now  this  is  5-8  is three  and  then  I  want  you  to  do  this. We  can  see  from  previously  from  this  side. We  can  see  that  the  scaling  is  b three  and  the  translation is  by  five  basically, we  are  doing  three  plus  five. Okay. Yeah,  if  you  are  trying to  sample  from  a  more  complex  distribution. On  technique  is  to  try  to  decompose it  into  symple  distributions  if  possible. Example,  sembl  dama  distribution will  do  parameters  A  B. If  this  A  is  happens  to  be  a positive,  then  it  turns  out  that This  Ama  dision,  the  PDFs. It  turns  out  that  this  y can  be  written  as  a  summation  of  x  i. Notice  that  if  A  is  positive  integer, this  has  to  be  a  ing  positive  integer, then  you  can  write  a  summation from  A  X  one  to  X  A, where  each  of  the  I  are  IID with  distributor as  exponential  distribution  with  the  parent. We  always  know  how to  sample  from  the  exponentiation very  easy  you  can  find  the  pudo  sorry, the  inverse  CDF  function, and  then  you  take  the  uniform  sample, you  just  convert  it  to  the  exponential  Z. In  this  case,  is  also  very  simple. I  just  do  A  A  exponent  samples, and  then  I  just  sum  out. Then  you  will  get  the  Y. And  then  the  PDF  of  Y. But  of  course,  What  is  A  is  not  hosts. This  gama  this  A  can  be a  real  value  does  not  have  to  be  a  ser. If  it's  not  a  ser then  you  cannot  express  in  this  form, then  you  have  to  come up  with  other  techniques. Then  the  next  technique  we're  going  to  do at  is  called  the  rection  sec. In  this  case,  we  do  not  even  need  to know  the  full  PDF that  we  are  trying  to  cangle  from. We  want  to  sancle  from  some  PZ. This  is  my  target  my  target  PDF. But  we  actually  don't  know  the  exact  form, the  function,  this  PC  instead, we  know  this  thing  called the  unnormalized  version  two z.  M  here  is  a  normalization  constant. So  n  is  equals  to the  integral  of  this  two  to  z. Of  course,  if  I  can  integrate integrate  it  and  then  I  can  normalize  it, then  it  becomes  a  PDF. But  in  a  lot  of  cases, we  don't  want  to  go  and  try  to  find  this  n. Of  course,  now  we  are  talking  about a  single  dist,  low  dimensional  distribution, you  can  always  integrate  and  find  the n.  But  when  it  comes to  high  dimensional  distributions, then  to  do  the  integral  becomes m  integral  integrating and  high  dimensional  space. Then  to  find  this  n  will become  very  di  intractable. So  this  rejection  scoring  actually  does not  require  you  to know  the  normalization  concern. Thus  knowing  the  unnormalized version  allows  is sufficient  for  you  to  do the  sec.  Let's  see  how  to  do  that. If  I  have  this  p2z, which  is  normalized  version, For  example,  you  find  this. Normalize  means  that  the  area under  this  curve  may  not  be  equal  to  one, can  be  something  else. If  I  can  find  this  area, I  divide  by  the  value, then  you  get  the  normalized, but  I  don't  need  to  go  and  find  it  right. This  rection  center  allows  me  to  do  that. All  I  need  to  do  if I  have  this  unnormalized  version, all  I  need  to  do  is  to  find  something  else, some  other  distribution  that covers  this  p  to  the  z. So  I  have  some  other  distribution  called  Q, which  is  the  props  PDF  proposal  PDF. I  I  can  find  some  constant K  constant  k  times  Q  Z. So  that  this  K  times  Q  z  is bigger  than  this  p2z. For  all  values  of  z. For  all  the  values  of  Z, that  means  it  covers  everything. So  this  new  QZ  multiplied  by  some  constant, it  will  cover  the  whole  p2z. Okay.  So  of  course  I  need  to  find a  suitable  Q  Z  as  well  as a  suitable  constant  for  this  to  happen. So  I  I  set. So  the  set. So  this  is  this is  this  is  the  P  two. I,  your  If  my  p2z, the  sub  set,  meaning  that  the  set  over which  this  function  is  non  zero. This  sub  what  does  this  mean? Sub  S  P  is  the  same as  support  of  p two  because  they  deffer  only  by  constant. So  it  is  basically  the  set such  that  your  P  Z  is  s  bigger  than  zero, is  not  equals  to  zero. So  the  sub  mas,  right. So  basically  all  the  z  right whereby  if  you  take a  small  interval  around  that  Z, there's  some  probability  mass. If  I'm  looking  at  a  z  whereby  it's  far  out right  and  the  neighborhood is  basically  all  zero, I  don't  even  care  about  that  right because  anywhere  that  one has  probably  d  zero. I  mean,  the  region  around there  has  probably  d  zero,  I  don't. So  for  example,  if this  guy  zero  on the  support  set  is  only  up  to  here. I  don't  care  about  the  z  over  here,  right? Because  anyway  when  I sample  from  the  P,  right, you  will  never  you'll  never  get any  samples  from  here because  probably  easier. I  only  need  to  pay  about  the  supple  set. The  supple  set  is  basically defined  to  be  all  the  z such  that  this  is  positive. But  of  course  I  want  to include  the  end  points  as  well. I  want  to  include  these  two  end  points, although  it's  equals  to  zero. That's  why  we  put  a  bar  over  here. This  bar  means  the  crus. Okay.  So  this  sub  set, we  take  the  c  the closer  of  the  support  set.  Okay. Now  we  have  this  sub  set, I  need  to  choose  my  Q  Z so  that  the  support  set  of  Q, at  least  contains  the  support  set  of P.  So  the  sub  set of  P  be  inside  the  sub  set  of  Q. So  we'll  see.  Basically,  the  in is  that  if  I'm  going  to  sample  Okay. So  the  idea  here  is that  it's  very  difficult  to  sale from  the  P.  So  I'm  going  to  come  up  with another  so  called  proposal  distribution  PDF that  is  easy  to  sample  from. For  example,  I  can  choose my  Q  Z  to  be  say  the  uniform  distribution, I  choose  a  uniform  distribution, and  then  I  multiply  it  by  some  K  to  make  it higher  so  that  it  covers  this  pq2z. And  we  know  that  the  uniform  distribution I  can  settle  from  it  easily. The  idea  here  is  that  If I  cannot  sample  from  the  P, I  can  try  to  find  something that  I  can  sample  from  easily, but  we  must  satisfy  this  property that  first  of  all, the  supo  of  the  Q  must contain  the  subalt  of  the  P.  Moreover, I  can  find  a  K, some  constant  k  so  that  the  out multiplying  by  the  constant  k  is  above, is  higher  than  the  value  of  the  p. Then  I  can  do  this  resction  seping. How  does  the  rection  sampling  work? Basically,  What  we're  going to  do  is  set  from  the  queue,  right? We  are  going  to  we are  going  to  assume  that  I  can seer  from  the  Qe  Z. For  example,  uniform  distribution. I  find  some  sample  from  the  queue. So  for  example.  This  is  the  zero  that  I  set. I  have  to  choose  zero  using  the  queue. Now  you  can  see  that. This  z  no  basically  if  you look  at  this  z  not  is sampling  from  this  red  color  one. You  can  imagine  that  this  one. If  you  look  at  a  small  region  around  it, this  one  will  have  this  probability  mass, which  is  different  from the  actual  probability  mass  that  we  want. The  actual  11  is  the one  in  the  in  the  orange. So  I  I  center  the  z  t  from  here, then  this  I  run  the  probability  mass  of the  z  t  to  be of  this  height  instead  of  of  this  height. But  now  I'm  centring  the  z  t  from  here  and  it turns  out  that  it's  basically  of this  height  instead  of  this  one. So  we  need  to  do  some  correction. So  we  are  going  to  then Choose  the  uniform  distribution. I'm  going  to  center  a  U  from  uniform from  between  zero  and  k  times  Q  z  nought. Basically,  I'm  going  to now  look  at  this  whole  thing, and  then  I'm  going  to centle  uniform  d  on  this  thing. Then  my,  M  U is  going  to  fall  some  uniformly  here. And  I'm  going  to  say  that  if  my  U  falls in  the  orange  color  region, then  I  will  accept  the  sample. So  if,  if  u  is  smaller  than  the  PT  z, right,  which  is  the  orange  color  car, then  I  will  accept. Then  I'll  treat  this  z  naught  as a  center  from  the  target  distribution. If  I  don't  accept, that  means  I'm  going  to  reject. I  got  away  and I'm  going  to  repeat  the  whole  process. So  is  heuristically,  the  imagine  right. Basically,  originally,  my  z no  is  basic  coming  from  here. Yes,  this  probability.  Now  I use  a  uniform  distribution  to  sample  here. So  with  certain  probability is  going  to  fall  here. So  that  probability  is exactly  the  one  that  we  want. So  I  my  U  falls  here, then  I  force  the  zn a  set  the  zero  which  means I  forced  the  zeno  to  have this  property  max  instead  of  the  one. So  then  that  would  fit  the  original  distion. Okay.  But  is.  So  that's  fine. We  have  to  prove  it  directly. Okay.  Before  prove  it  that's  this  acceptance. So  see  that's  what it  is  called  resection  sent meaning  that  Each  time  you  draw  a  sample, it  may  not  be  accepted. Each  time  you  draw  a  new  sale you  get  rejected  rejected, then  you  trove  it  way  and  then  you repeat  until  at  some  point, you  get  an  acceptance  then  you tres  the  desired  sample. So  that's  a  mole  rejection  sp. The  first  question  we  want  to  answer  is, how  long  does  it  take  to  get  a  valid  sample? What's  the  probability  of  acceptance? So  I  want  to  know  what's  the  probability that  I  using  this  procedure I  will  get  acceptance. This  probability  will  be  I  can condition  on  the  probability  of what  is  the  z  that  that  I  drawn, this  is  z  stor  given  the  z  that  was  drawn, and  this  z  is  actually  drawn  according  to Q.  I'm  sampling  sampling  the  z  from  the  Q. Okay. So  this  condition  on  z, we  accept  only  if the  uniform  distribution  happens to  happens  to  be  less  than  this  p2z. But  this  uniform  distribution  is  from zero  to  k.  So this  probability  would  be the  P  z  divided  by  k  times  z. I  hope  all  of  you  see  this. What  is  this  uniform  distribution? I'm  doing  a  uniform  p  zero  to  k  times  z. Then  I  accept  only if  I'm  using  here as  a  special  symbol  Z  but  now I  change  Z  I  hope  you're  not  confused. I  will  only  accept  if  my, I'm  doing  a  uniform  distribution over  this  interval. I  will  only  accept  if my  falls  between  the  les. That's  the  probability  B  it's  uniform, the  probability  of  acceptance  is at  this  part  divided  by  the  whole  interval. Okay.  So  you  can  see  here, this  guy  will  cancel out  and  you  are  left  with  one  k. This  das  normalization  consider. So  it's  over  k.  So your  acceptance  is  going  to  decay  when  K  is. So  if  I  look  at  the  rest  of  course, my  K  I  choose  a  big  K, you  will  cover  the  P  Z and  you  will  cover  the  PC. But  then  you  don't  want  to  choose the  K  to  be  a  bigger  K  will cover  but  you  can see  that  the  acceptance  will  become  very  low, right  over  K.  This helps  us  we  should  try  to choose  the  K  as  small  as  possible. But  then  we  still  need  to  make  sure  that the  K.  The  K is  chosen  so  that  it  covers  the  K  two. So  we  try  to  find the  best  possible  value  of  k  so that  we  can  increase  the  acceptance  rate. On  average,  order  of  k  s. So  you  basically  have  to  set  K  times  on average  before you  actually  get  an  acceptance. We  want  to  be  as  small  as  possible. Means  that  I  want  to  choose  my  K  that k  times  Q  z  is  bigger  than  this  p2z, for  all  values  of  z  for  all  values  of  z, which  means  that  k  m  be  bigger than  over  Q  for  all  values  of  z. The  k  that  has to  be  equals  to  the  maximum,  right? So  I  basically  have to  complete  this  ratio  and then  take  the  maximum  value. Okay. But  now  the  more  important  thing  is, why  does  this  work?  Why  is  this  that? If  I  run  this  procedure, I'm  going  to  get  a  semper from  the  target  description. If  I  want  this  proc,  I  want to  verify  the  CDF, I  want  to  prove  that  the  CDF  of  the  accepted accepted  is  given  by the  target  CDF  is  the  t  CDF, which  is  given  by the  minus  infinity  to  P  let's  call  it. Okay. So  let's  use  as  the  threshold  PZ  Z. So  basically,  I  need  to  prove that  whatever  I  have  created the  CDF  of  this  guy is  exactly  the  CDF  that  I'm  looking  for. So  let's  try  to  prove  that. So  here,  I'm  trying  to  prove  that  the  Z, this  is  the  one  that  I have  created  using  the  rejections and  model  than  some  threshold  Z n  given  that  it's  accepted. So  I  only  look  at  the  accepted  one. The  CDF  is  exactly equals  to  this.  I  won't  prove  that. So  we  can  use  the  probability. According  to  your  probability  rule, have  this. At  the  bottom,  At the  bottom  of  this  one,  we  have  already  seen. This  is  n  over  K.  Now the  top  that's  at  the  top.  To  find  this. This  will  be  I'm  going  to  integrate the  PDF  over  the  bas  event  of  interest. Basically  I'm  integrating  over all  the  zs  that's  smaller  than  z  zero, and  then  when  is  accepted  is  accepted  my. The  U  that  I the  uniform  is  between  zero  and  P  to  the  z. According  to  the  procedure. The  procedure  says  that the  that  I  choose  is  uniform, but  I  only  accept  when  it's smaller  equals  to  this  p2z. So  I  got  integrate  over  that. Then  the  uniform  dis, the  has  the  PDF  is  one  over  k, Q  of  Z,  and  the  z  is  separate  from  the  Q. So  that's  why  the  PDF  itself  is  Q.  So  the  Z. You  can  see  this  one  will  cancel  out. So  this  will  give  you. We  have  one  over  k  z. The  U  is  from  zero  to  P  two, one  over  k.  So inside  integral  will  give  you  the  p  z.  Okay. Now  you  see  this  K, we  can  st  with  this  k  and then  at  the  bottom,  we  have  the  right. Finally  you  get  one  over n.  One over  multiplied by  this  is  exactly  the  normalized  version is  the  P  Z. We  have  proven  we  have  proven that  this  is  the  sampling, the  CDF  of  the  samples  that  we  accept. The  CDF  of  the  centers  is  exactly  the  t  CDF. So  target  CD. Basically, we've  proven  that  this  procedure  works. This  procedure  is  going  to  generate. The  samples  that  we  want. Okay. Okay.  So  maybe  let's take  10  minutes  break  here. Let's  come  back  at  843. Lo the  start  of the  dimension  means  the  z,  right? The  dimension  we're  talking  about  image. So  the  z  are  the  pz. So  let's  say  you  have  a  image  f6b  256s. Ma  that  was  the  example  that  we,  right? So  we're  talking  about  the  side. So  the  z  here,  you  say, is  all  the  z  This  is  like I  also  this  image  if  it's 256  by  256,  256  square. So  it's  a  very  high  dimension. Like  the  z  is  a  vector. Or  with  many  elements  inside. So  this  is.  Yeah. From  from  the  start, and  I  don't  know  the  til what's  the  tile  means? It  means  it  is  the  normalized  version of  this  guy.  This  is  a  PDF. Yes,  and  our  target.  Yeah. And  this  guy  may  not  be  a  PDF, but  the  PDF,  the integral  has  to  be  both  in  one. But  sometimes  we  don't  have  the  exact  PDF. We  just  have  the  unnormalized  one. Normalized  means  the  integral is  not  equal  to  one. And  then  we  have  to  find the  integral  which  is,  right? And  is  the  integral. Normalize  Yeah  to  normalize  it. But  this  method  does not  require  you  to  even  find  the  end. You  don't  need  to  go  and  compute  the  end. You  can  just  work  with  the unnormalized  without having  to  go  and  normalize  it. T  nomi  are  you able  to  the  mathematical  principle? Okay.  No,  the  point here  is  that  I  I  give you  this  p  d.  I  give  you  this. Put.  Yeah.  Cute.  And  I want  to  sale  from  this. I  mean,  center  is  to  sample  from  a  PDF. But  now  I  only  give  you  this. Normalize. Yeah.  So  one  way  is  to  normalize  it. But  usually  finding  this  is  not  so  easy, you  have  to  integrate  it  to find  the  Integration  is  not  easy. Numerically,  it  is  not  easy. So  this  method  actually says  that  I  don't  care,  right? I  I  I  just  work  with  the P.  I  don't  need  to  go  and  normalize  it. D. Normalized pro  normalize. This  is  different  for  each  point. Yeah.  Function  function. Put  the  function. Neither  one  is  K.  K  function. The  K  is  a  constant. So  the  K  has  to  be  sold  that  this  is  the  tie. Uh Yeah.  Okay. So  maybe  that's  like  a  quick  summary. So  basically,  we  are  trying  to sample  sample  from  some  target  PDF  PZ. This  is  what  we're  trying  to  sample. But  unfortunately,  most  of  the  time  we  have the  normalized  PDF  or the  normalized  function  p2z. So  most  of  the  time  we  only  have  this. Of  course,  to  get  back this  guy  we  have  to  normalize  it. But  doing  the  normalization  is  difficult. So  in  a  lot  of  cases,  this  is  intractable. We  don't  want  to  do  that.  That's  why in  most  of  our  sangl  methods, we  hope  to  have  saglin  methods  that can  work  with  the  unnormalized  version. Our  for  the  examples that  we're  seeing  is  still tractable  because  now  we're  still  working low  dimensional  distributions  where your  z  is  only  one  or  two  dimension. But  when  we  come  to  z  being  1,000  dimension, you  want  to  do  the normalization  becomes  very  difficult. Let's  keep  that  in  mind.  We  want our  procedure  to  be able  to  work  with  the  unnormalized  version. So  in  your  rejection  sampling,  what  do  we  do? We  find  a  ue,  right a  cue  that  is  easy  to  sample  from. Examples  include  like your  uniform  distribution,  you  can  sample. I  didn't  go  through  this  one, but  Gaussian  is  also  easy to  sample  from,  Epoure. We  know  how  to  sample  from  exponent, using  the  inverse  CDF  and  so. Some  of  these  standard  distributions are  easy  to  sample  from. So  I  choose  appropriate  Q, then  I  find  a  constant K.  I  can  always  find  the  ratio, P  divided  by  Q, take  the  maximum  over  all  the  zs. Yeah. Of  course,  this  mis, you  just  need  to  maximize  over Z  that's  inside  the  support  set,  right? Because  if  it's  outside  the  support  set, it's  going  to  be  zero  anyway,  right? So  it  doesn't  matter. Okay.  Okay.  So  this  will  ensure  that my  k  times  Q  Z  covers  the  p2z. Okay.  Once  I  have  that,  I  will  sample. I  will  sample  z  from  the  Qe,  right? We  know  this  is  easy  to sample  from  I  can  easy  sample. Then  I  will  also  sample  from  the  uniform, but  now  using  the  previous  sample, I  will  sample  from  the  uniform between  to  k  times  Q. So  the  right.  This  is the  one  that  you  sample  from  the  first  step. Now  I  do  a  uniform between  zero  to  this  particular  value. Then  I  at  at  E, my  happens  to  be  smaller  than  p2z. That  will  be  this  is your  whole  procedure  for  your  rejection  sec. Let's  do  some  exercises  please. This  is  one  of  the  steps in  our  rejection  settling. And  of  course,  in  your  rection  settling, we  are  not  sampling  from  the  uniform  0-1. Right?  Now  we're  sampling  between zero  and  k  times  Q  z. So  the  question  is  how to  generate  these  samples. So  you  recall  one of  the  previous  problems  that  we  did. So  it's  very  similar  we  see  how  to  get this  uniform  sample. Similar  as  before. Now  we  know  we  can  center  0-1  the  form. Now  we  are  trying  to  t  going  from  zero  to  k. We  are  transforming  into  this. We  can  see  in  terms  of  there's  no  sheet. The  uniform  is  the  starting  point is  still  at  zero,  but  we're  scaling. Basically  we  are  scaling  this  12k  times  z. B  this. So  the  number  we  have the  center  from  the  uniform 0-1  and  then  multiply  ks. Okay.  So  this  is  doing  recession  settling. We  are  going  to  use  a  uniform minus  11,  right? So  this  uniform,  correct? Okay.  So  I  need  to  find  a  constant  K so  that  covers  the  whole  PDF,  right. So  that  means  I  need to  multiply  by  a  suitable  value. So  that  is  at  least, at  least  we  can't  do  right. So  my  K  at  least  has  to  be  four. So  if  I  choose  k  equals  to  four, then  you'll  cover  the  whole  PT. Okay.  So  that  would  be  your  best  answer. Of  course,  if  you  choose k  to  be  bigger  than  four k  equals  to  100  is  also  okay, I  will  definitely  cover  but  then  we  see  that the  acceptance  rate  is  going  to  become  lower, acceptance  is  the  acceptance  probability, acceptance  probability is  going  to  be  proportional to  one  over  k.  So usually  want  to  choose the  K  as  more  as  possible, but  still  meet  the  condition. So  that's  why  the  best  k here  is  kquals  to  four. Okay.  How  about  can  we  choose  a  uniform, say  0-1  to  be  the  cube? Not  right  no  matter  what  is  the  value  of  k, even  you  multiply  k  times  Q  z  here, this  part  will  always  be  zero because  your  Q  Z is  already  zero  on  this  part. No  matter  what  is  the  K,  right? You  K  times  Z  will not  be  able  to  cover  this  part. That's  why  the  subo  whatever  Q your  subo  set  has  to  cover the  subset  of  your that  you  are  trying  to  sample  from. Okay.  How  about  I choose  a  uniform,  for  example, from  from  minus  two all  the  way  to  two.  It  is  possible. So  here,  this  will  be one  quarter  four  and then  I  have  to  choose  a  bit  K  by  K  to  eight. So  this  is  also  possible, but  then  you  can  see  that  there's a  lot  of  inefficiency. So  I  center  from  the  uniform, in  this  case,  I'm centering  from  minus  two  to  two. So  it's  possible  to  get  centers  here. But  once  you  get  a  center  here, all  these  centers  will  be  rejected because  remember  centering,  Okay. You  only  a  set  if  it's  model  or equals  to  these  p2z. But  the  two  z  in this  part  is  always  equals  to  zero. All  these  centers  will  be  bigger  than  z. You  will  definitely  be  rejected,  right. Similarly,  all  these  will  be  rejected. So  even  though  it's  valid  centering, but  all  these  parts  are  wasted.  So  y. So  if  we  want  to  be  as  efficient  as  possible, we  try  to  ret  the  support set  as  much  as  possible. Okay. So  we  can  come  back  to the  dama  distion  that we're  trying  to  sample  from. Recall  that  now  if  A  is  a  positive  integer, then  we  have  A  times A  saps  from  the  expe  we'll  get  the  dama. But  now  A  is  not  integer. One  way  is  to  a  C  that  that's  a  flow  of  A. For  example,  A  equals  to  2.5, then  that  c  equals  to two  to  make  into  an  integer. This  key  can  be  chosen  to  be the  dama  with  the  C.  For  some  reason, we're  going  to  use  b  minus  one. But  you  will  see  that  this  case is  basically  the  top  ones no  C  is  the  integer. I  think  that  C  copies  of  the  exposure. So  this  one,  this  Q  is  something  you  can  set. So  then  to  find  the  k, I  find  the  ratio, P  Z  Q  Z. So  you  can  compete. You  can  see  that  the  ratio  equals  of  the, and  then  the  maximum  value  of this  guy  is  z  equals  A  minus  c, and  then  you  can  choose  k to  be  basic  minus  this  value. So  that the  resection  s  criteria  is  satisfied. Okay.  This  is  what  it  looks  like. The  blue  one  is  the  target  mer. The  red  color  one  is  the  one  using  the  C, the  mpeg  part,  and then  with  the  appropriate  K  value. So  by  multiplying  a  suitable  K  value, and  see  that  now  this  dotted  one  covers  one. I  can  use  the  reaction  sector  here. But  Immily,  see  that  there's  a  lot  of  it. Usually  there's  quite  a  big  space  over  here. So  a  sector  here, I'm  going  to  basically  get  a  lot  of  rejection here  the  st  probab is  viable  in  all  these  it  one. It  turns  out  that  a  better  choice  here instead  of  using  gama  sent  gama. Sometimes  we  have  to  be  flexible. We  have  to  choose  something  else. Here,  if  I  choose  a  cause  distribution, so  this  cat  distribution, with  a  suitable  k  value, it  turns  out  that  you  can  see that  the  f  is  much  closer. I  didn't  explain  how  to  separate. This,  you  can  actually  sep from  using  the  transformation  formula. Assuming  we  sep  from  the  green  one, this  will  be  a  better  f.  We see  that  the  rejection rejection  will  be  much  less. Yeah.  We  also  have  to  be  careful  on the  proposal  distribution  that  we  want  to  se. We  can  t  with  this  tubes  like. In  this  number,  we  have  another  example  here. This  is  the  du  one  is  a  mixture. Center  of  the  galcane  then  yellow  one. The  orange  one,  this  is a  D  is  a  Dalian  and  then  we multiply  by  a  constant  so  that this  whole  guan  covers  this  mixture. And  then.  And  the  center  of  the  Dali  as  well. So  this  I  go through  from  your  Python  package, which  will  be  able  to  sale from  the  Dalcin  clarity. So. So  sending  from  Dalcin, using  the  rejection  senos will  sample  from  the  gauche. Okay.  Then  coming  to  the  basin  infra. This  is  all  we  started  off  with. So  we  are  trying  to  get  the  poster  distion  p. So  in  the  basin  introns, we  are  trying  to  find  the  poster  distion. Which  is  the  logical multiplied  by  the  ty  divided  by. Data  P. As  we  saw  in  one  if  P  data can  be  chosen  to  be  a  conjugate y  con  with  respect  to  this  go, then  the  posterior  will  be  the  same  family  as the  P  data  this  is  a  beta  distribution, this  is  also  beta  distribution, but  the  parameters  are  different. Basic  in  the  nine  this  is  possible. So  but  then  in  most  of  cases, this  is  not  possible  and we  usually  don't  want  to  complete  this  guy because  the  PD  PD  is the  probability  density  of your  training  set  training  set  can  be  huge. So  to  find  the  probability  density is  not  so  tractable  I  mean, we  we'll  be  wasting computational  resources as  we  find  to  compute. Instead,  we  can  try  to do  separating  from  this a  normalized  version,  right? We  can  just  center directly  from  the  normalize, which  is  P  data. You  want  to  write  with the  D  of  the  D  doesn't  matter. This  itself  is  not  a  PDF, because  we  ident  divided  by  PD, but  this  is  a  normalized  version  of  the  PDF. This  one  we  can  compute,  this  one, we  can  compute  and  then  you  can  then choose  Q  data  that you  can  center  for,  find  the  K, and  then  just  do  the  ion  s.  If  you  if it  happens  that  this  P  data is  the  pyro  is chosen  to  be  something  easy  to  sample  from. Then  if  I  just  take  the  P  data  to  be  Q  data. So  I'm  just  sampling  from  the  pyro  desion. Then  you  can  see  that  the  K  in  this  case, will  be  this  ratio  and the  p  data  will  cancel  out. Basically  this  is  the  P  data divided  by  the  py. This  will  be  here  the  P  data  cons  y,  right? The  hoo  This  is  the  hoo. Okay.  So  now  to  find  the  K, right  to  find  the  K  that is  the  most  suitable  k,  right? I'm  actually  maximizing  over  this. Which  is  the  same  as  maximizing. This  is  the  MLE. The  K  The  K  value is  nothing  but  the  MLE  of  data. Only  happens  in  this  Q  data  is  is  a  p  dist. P  dist  is  easy  to  take  the  p  as  a  proposal. Okay. So  there's  a  rejection  centering, so  that's  now  we  move  on  to another  sening  technique called  important  scoring. Okay. The  important  saning  The focus  is  slightly  different. Important  sing  starts  off by  trying  to  find  expectation. This  is  important,  for  example, in  the  e  step  of  your  EM  algorithm, trying  to  compute  an  expectation. In  general,  we  are  trying to  find  the  expectation  of some  function  F  z is  distributed  according to  some  probability  distribution. So  target  PZ. We're  trying  to  find  this  expectation. We  know  that  according to  the  strong  or  large  number, This  can  be  approximately  using sans  a  lot  of  I  I  ID. So  I  che  CI  ID  from  the  target  distriion. If  I  can  draw  sans  from  the  target  exist, I  just  take  the  emblcal  average. So  the  idea  is  that  we will  try  to  if  I  look  at  this  expectation, this  guy  is  basically  in integrating  F  Z  multiplied  by  PC, that's  your  target  PDM. So  this  is  your  expectation,  right. So  you  can  see  that  if  I'm  trying to  approximate  this  expectation, I  should  try  to  approximate  those  regions, those  z  values,  where this  FZ  times  PZ  is  larger,  right? Because  for  those  regions where  the  FDs  PZ  is  very  small, it  doesn't  contribute  much to  the  integral,  right. So  if  I  can  find  the  z  that approximate  F  Z  times P  Z  where  this  value  is  larger, then,  you  know,  I  can  approximate  it  better. So  the  idea  here  is basically  we  trying  to  sample,  right? Sample  Z  whereby  the  Z  times P  Z  is  larger  for  better  efficiency. Okay.  One  example  here is  the  Z  is  just  a  indicator  function. So  in  this  case,  F  Z is  the  indicator  function  whereby Inside.  So  equals  to one  the  z  value  is  inside this  particular  st  E and  equals  to  zero  otherwise. So  I  equals  one  d  z is  inside  E  and  zero  otherwise. So  maybe  right  as indicate  of  E.  In  this  case, you  can  see  that  the  expectation  here, expectation  of  Z  is expectation  of  the  indicator. So  this  guide  will  be  last. Okay.  So  it  equals to  one  on  the  set  E,  right? So  which  means  that  this integral  I'm  just  integrating  over  the  set. This  is  nothing  but  the  probability, probability  that  z  is  inside. Because  this  is  the  PDF, I'm  integrating  the  PDF over  this  set  this will  just  me  the  probability. In  this  case, this  expectation  is  just  a  probability, right. This  is  one  example  where  we  can apply  this  important  sent  technique in  order  to  estimate  probability, you'll  see  an  example  where this  E  could  be  some  event  of  interest, could  be  some  rare  event you  want  to  estimate  how likely  this  kind  of  event  is  going  to happen  then  you  can  use  important  separate. So  yeah.  So  does  so  that  it's  not just  restricted  to  finding  expectations, but  in  fact,  probability  is an  example  is  a  special  case  of  expectation. Okay.  So  we  see  that  we  want  to  sample  the  z, right  where  this  is  large. So  I  the  idea is  to  create  this  thing called  importance  weight  to say  how  important  certain  values  of  z are  according  to  whether  this  large  or  small. So  same  thing.  Same  thing  as  before. The  the  P,  the  target  P  Z, this  is  dif  difficult  to  sample  from, you  don't  know  how  to  sample  from. Okay.  And  then  you  have  a  proposal  Q  Z. This  is  easy  to  sample  from. T  Again,  your  Q  Z  can  be  a  uniform, gauze  something  that  is  suitable. Now  if  I'm  trying  to find  the  expectation  whereby  the  z, the  z  is  distributed  according  to the  target  which  is  P. This  expectation  will  be the  integral  of  z  PC. We're  going  to  do  a  small  trip  over  here, right  P  Z  divided  by  Q  Z  Q. Then  we  are  going  to  call this  guy  call  WZ  with. We  can  see  that  this  integuer  now  becomes ZZ  times  Q  z  dz. If  you  look  at  this  integral, you  can  think  of  this integral  as  with  respect  to  Q, instead  of  P.  B  are multiplying  by  the  PDF  Q  Z. This  integral  is  now  actually the  expectation  where  your  z is  distributed  according  to  Q  of  Z. Okay.  And  according  to the  strong  or  large  numbers, this  can  be  approximated  by  taking  samples. Taking  samples  from  the  Q. You  F  I  W  I  your  Z is  now  I  ID  according to  Q.  Q  is the  one  that  is  easy  to  sample  from. Okay. So  these  are  called  the  importance. This  guy  is  nothing  but  the  ratio  between P  Z  and  ZI. So  the  ratio  between the  target  and  the  proposal. The  important  thing  is  that  we  now sample  the  z  from  the  EZ  distribution  Q. And  then  we  are  basically multiplying  by  the appropriate  weight  over  here. Okay. Okay.  So  the  different  rejection  s, they  see  that  this  procedure doesn't  have  any  rejection. So  we  basically  right sample  directly  from  the  Q  Z, and  we  are  basic  we  are using  all  the  samples  in  the  estimate. There's  no  rejection  going  on. Moreover,  right? We  do  not  require  you  re, you  know,  the  Q  Z  to  cover  the  Z. So  different  from  the  rejection  s.  I  can see  that  were  taking  the  ratio  here,  right? In  the  rejection  sector, we  can  think  of  it  we  are  basically taking  the  maximum  value  of  this  ratio  for the  K.  But  now  we  are allowing  this  concern  to  depend  on  z. So  that's  why  we  have  now  this  WZ, which  is  a  function  of  z. There's  no  need  for  this  guy and  do  not  reject  any  sectors. But  of  course,  we  still  me  this  will  be  true. Yeah.  In  particular,  we cannot  have  this  guy  equals  to  zero, but  this  is  positive. If  this  is  positive  and this  is  equals  to  zero, this  fraction  doesn't  hold. So  this  will  be  undefined. We  cannot  have  this  happen. So  that  means  when  this  guy  is  positive, this  guy  must  be  positive  as  well. So  the  so  have  to  cover  that. But  you  can  see  that  here, I  also  write  F  ski  because  Be  turns  out, you  see  that  if  my  F  is  zero, then  it  doesn't  matter  what  this  is. If  this  guy  is  zero, then  I  don't  care  about  this  ratio  at  all. That's  why  the  support  only  need  to  care whether  this  is  negative  or  not. Okay. And  of  course,  you  can  see that  the  conversion  depends  on how  well  your  proposal  measures what  you're  trying  to  integrate. Okay.  Let's  see  one  quick  application. So  this  is  when  we  want  to  estimate the  tail  probability  of some  random  variable  bigger  than  eight. For  example,  this  is what  we  call  the  rare  event. So  for  example,  stock  market, your  X  can  represent  the  stock  price. And  then  we  are  trying  to  estimate  what's the  probability  that  this  stock  price is  going  to  be  very  large? It's  going  to  go  to be  above  a  certain  threshold? Or  this  x  can  represent  some  sort  of  s.  So being  able  to  estimate  the  risk  inside your  portfolio  is  actually  very important  to  you  know, for  you  to  manage the  performance  of  the  portfolio. This  is  usually  done all  the  bands  and  the  heat  trucks. So  we  always  need  to find  be  able  to  estimate  this  probability. This  are  tail  events  that  is  very  rare. But  the  problem  is  that  even  if  we  know the  actual  distribution  to  find this  probability  is  going  to  be  very  high because  this  can  have very,  very  small  probability. If  I  try  to  choose  a  lot  of cle  from  the  actual  distribution, you  may  have  to  choose a  few  median  centers  before  you actually  see  X  that's  bigger  than  eight. Because  this  probability  can  be  very  small. A  better  way  to  do  it  is  to  come  up  with a  proposal  distribution  where the  support  is  between  A  and  pic. That  means  I  choose, I  choose  the  samples  from  the  QC. All  the  samples  are going  to  be  bigger  than  A. If  I  can  sample  on  the  Q  Z, where  the  support  is  from  A  to  infinity, then  all  the  samples  I'm  choosing are  by  definition  bigger  than  E,  right. Then  I  just  sample  from Q  and  then  I  have  a  w. I  have  to  compute  the  w  according. This  makes  the  excavation  easier. Then  just  trying  to  sample  directly  from  the. We  can  do  to  see  how  it's  implemented.  Yeah. The  implement  reion  is  nothing march  exactly  what  with  this  company. That's  computing  this  s. Yeah. So  that  gives  you  the  actual  stock  price. This  SPY  is  not  stop. This  is  index.  So  this  is the  SP  500  ETF  the  SP  500  index  ETF. Okay. So  we  can  use  the  important  centering to  estimate  the  probability that  your  S&P  500, right  is  going  to  in  this  case, is  going  to  be  drop  below  a  small  threshold. Okay. So  then  so  here  okay, not  not  the  PDF  price, but  the  log  return. So  here,  this  is  the  log  return of  your  SP  Y  in  the  date. So  a  lot  of  y. So  we  basically  want  to estimate  what's  the  probability  that  you return  log  return  comes  log this  may  trigger  some  things  for. Okay.  Yeah.  So  we  can  do  that. How  is  implemented  here, so  it's  basically  using  the  important  seling. But  now  we  sample using  1,000  distribution  that  is shifted  the  meaning  of the  thousand  distribution  is shifted  to  the  trash  OE. So  we  can  sample  directly  from  here, and  then  you  can  use the  importance  was  to  estimate. What's  the  probability  that your  You  probably  is  going  to  be  smaller, smaller  than  this  t  t  on  the  diagram  here, you  can  see  that  this  probably is  going  to  be  almost  zero,  right. In  fact,  is  ten  pound  minus, I  minus  sorting  and  something  like  that. You  are  trying  to  you  will  sector directly  from  this  histogram. Even  if  you  can  estimate, you  can  fit  a  b  distion  very nicely  to  the  actual  to  grad and  you  think  that  this  one  is the  actual  target  distribution. You  try  to  sample  for this  target  distion  directly. You  basically  have  to  draw  1014  sables before  on  average  before  you actually  get  something that's  below  the  threshold, which  is  not  t.  So then  how  can  we estimate  this  probability,  right? So  we  have  to  use this  important  sampling  technique to  be  able  to  estimate  this  probability. Okay. That's  the  important  sampling  for  finding the  the  expectation you  probably  not  something. In  this  important  segue that  I  mentioned,  right? I  never  talked  about  normalized  version. I  here  I  actually  the  ratio is  taking  the  normalized  version. The  P  Z  divided  by  Q  Z. You  know,  P  Z  is  the  normalized  version. In  some  cases,  this  is  not  desirable,  right? As  I  mentioned,  finding the  normalized  version  is not  so  easy  in  some  applications. Now  we  want  something  that can  also  work  with  the  normalized  version. We  only  know  the  Z. In  fact  here,  this  important  sep also  allow  your  Q  Z to  be  known  only  up to  some  normalizing  constant. I  can  use  anormalized  Q  and a  normalized  Q  for important  sp.  Let's  see  how  we  go. Basically,  in  your  original  important  sing, I'm  going  to  compute  this  guy. Okay.  So  this  W  I  is the  P  Z  I  divided  by  Q  Zi.  Okay. Okay. So  what  we  are  going  to  do  is to  is  to  to define  this  thing  called the  normalized  s  normalized, normalized  z,  normalized  weight  to  be the  original  weight  divided by  the  sum  of  all  the  weight. Basically  taking  the  sum  over  that. Okay,  don't  confuse  the  n  with  this. This  n  is  a  number  of  samples. This  n  just  stands  for  normalization. Maybe  let's  call  it. No.  Okay. The  normalized  weight  that  basically I  take  the  original  weight. I  find  the  total  weight, f  the  total  weight,  and  then  I  take the  original  weight  divided by  the  total  weight. We  call  it  the  normalized  weight. This  side,  I  can change  this  into  the  normalized  weight. If  I  change  it  into  the  normalized, I  will  multiply  by  the  sum  right  outside. So  I  multiply  by  the  sum  outside. And  then  each  of them  will  become  the  normalized  weight. And  then  if  you  do  at  this  side. So  according  to  your  law  of  large  numbers. So  if  n  is  g  n  goes  to  infinity, this  will  go  to  the  expectation, Whereby  your  z  are  taken  according  to  Q. So  expectation  of  this  WC. And  what's  this  expectation  is  integral  of the  WZ  multiplied  by Q  Z  because  the  z  are  drawn  according  to  Q. And  what's  W  Z? WZ  is  P  Z  over  Q  Z. The  QC  will  cancel and  you're  left  with  the  PC. Indeg  PC  is  equal to  one  because  these  are  PD. When  is  such,  this  is going  to  be  approximately  equals  to  one. And  then  you  are  left  with  this  is. Here, this  is  an  approximation  now  the  rection s.  This  approximation  goes  infinity, you  get  this  sum  over  here. Normal. The  tree  here  is  why  do  we want  to  do  this  because  if  you  do  this. The  normalized I you  p, you  have  the  P  Z,  you  have  the  Z. Yeah.  G. So  we'll  look  at  this  side. Now,  if  I  change  the  P  to  P two  on  top  and bottom,  it's  still  equal  right? Because  the  constants  will  cancel  out. The  top  the  normalization constant  and  the  bottom  denominator, the  normalization  constant  are  the  same, right? So  I  can  actually I  can  actually  change  the  Q  to  P  two. I  can  use  the  normalized  version. You  will  still  you  will  still get  the  same  Similarly, if  I  change  the  Q  to  the  normalized  version, you  will  also  the  normalization  coms  of  cons. We  use  the  normalized  or the  normalized  one  you  are  getting  the  same w.  That's  the  advantage  of  using this  normalized  version  normalized version  of  the  w  This normalized  version  of  the  wz allows  you  to  use  the  normalized  PD. So  that's  an  advantage. But  of  course,  this  advantage  is  that it's  doable  for  all  applications. So  for  example,  in the  tail  probability  you won't  be  able  to  use  this. Okay.  So  that's  for  finding  expectations. Okay.  So  now  coming back  to  send  bring  it  turns  out  that this  important  sampling  is to  find  expectations  of fine  probabilities  and  expectations. But  it  turns  out  that  we  can  also repurpose  it  to  actually  get  sandburs. Remember,  our  first  original  objective  was to  that  sandb  we have  the  standard  distribution, we  have  the  rejection  sapling  is to  that  samples  from  some  distribution. So  now,  we  can  find  expectations. Can  we  also  trying  to  get sandburs  using  this  important  sampling. It  turns  out  it's  possible. By  modifying  this  procedure to  something  called  sand bring  important sanding  importance  resampling. S  I  R. We  are  going  to  use  the  important  spring, but  do  it  in  a  slightly  different  way. Okay.  What  do  we  do? We  are  going  to  use  the  important  spring. We  are  going  to  center  from  some. This  is  the  easy  to  ser  from the  s  as  before  we're going  to  compute all  these  normalized  weights. Compute  all  these  normalized  weights. Okay.  Now  is  the  last  sep  refer  to  reserve. I'm  going  to  re replace  from  from  this  set  z  one. That  means  the  centers  that  you  have chosen,  we  have  chosen. So  we  have  chosen  these  centers. I'm  going  to  take  from  this  set. I'm  going  to  sample  from  this  set  using the  weights  using  this  weights and  basically  treating these  weights  as  a  probabilities. Because  now  the  normalized  weights are  always  going  to  be  0-1, right  because  I  normalize. All  these  weights  that  will  sum  up  to  one. We  can  think  of  these  as  probabilities. So  we  can  treat  this  as probabilities  of  categorical  distriion. Maybe  I  shouldn't  say  categorical. These  are  probabilities. These  are  probabilities  of  getting  Z  I. Each  of  the  Z  I  Z  one, Z  two  have  some probability  associated  with  it. Everyone  has a  probability  associated  with  it. So  I'm  treating  all  these  weights as  probabilities  and  I'm  going  to do  from  this  set according  to  this  probability. Once  I  chose  it,  I will  put  it  back  again  for  the  next  round. So  that's  what  it  means  I  replace. So  I  send  from  it.  I  will  it  back. I  for  the  next  round, I  will  still  too  again, p  it  back  too  again,  put  it  back. We  will  replace  them  and  every  time  this  is. Okay. So  now  the  interesting  thing  is that  doing  this  resembling  technique, samples  that  are  approximately from  the  target  distribution. Okay.  So  I  think  that  is  the  ag  part  of this  procedure  and  something that  is  not  so  obvious. Doing  this  resembling  somehow  is  able  to produce  you  samples  of  course  it's  not  exact, but  approximately  depending  on how  many  samples  you  have originally  approximately equal  to  the  target  distribution. So  yeah. So  we  the  right. So  what  are  we  sakling  from,  right? So  this  is  from  the  SIR. So  we  are  basically  sakling  this  Z  t  is actually  of  it  as a  multinominal  distribution  over this  set  that  you sangle  from  the  queue,  right? You  sakle  this  from  the  Qe. And  now  we  are using  a  multinominal  distribution this  this  probability  we  set  on  this. Okay.  So  we  are  going  to  Again, to  show  that  it  works, we  have  to  prove  that  the CDF  of  this  Z  theater. So  here,  that's  call  it  Zutter. Okay. We  want  to  show  that the  CDF  Z  theat  smaller  than  A, these  are  the  given  centers  from  the  Q. We  want  to  show  that  the  CDF  of this  guy  is  approximately the  CDF  of  the  target  retribution. Okay. The  CDF  how  to  complete  the  CDM. We  know  that  this  guy over  here  has  this  probability. The  CDF  of  this  guy  is basically  the  sum  of  all  these  probabilities, until  your  ZI  are  bigger  than  A. We  basically  sum  up all  the  probabilities  of  the Is  where  the  Zs  are  smaller  equal  to  A. Basic  Summing  up  all  the  probability  weeks, summing  up  all  the  probability  I, such  that  I  has  smaller  equal. Correct.  That's  how  we  find  the  CDM. I  I  give  you  the  probab  discrete set  with  probabilities  for each  element  inside  the  set  to  find  the  CDM right  you  basic  take  all  all  those  elegant. Sum  up  the  probabilities  of all  the  elements  smaller  than  this  treasury. That's  how  we  do we  now  we  will put  in  the  definition of  this  normalized  weights. Is  suing  over  the  i. I  use  the  indicator  function  here. The  normalized  weight  will  be the  Pi  divided  by  Q  and of  divided  by  the  no  The  normalization is  the  sum  over  all  the  weights  over  Q. Okay. And  then  what  are  we  doing  here, we  are  taking  one on  top  and  one  at  the  bottom. And  remember  your  Z. These  are  ID. These  are  ID  according  to  Q. Okay.  So  the  bottom, this  is  according  to  strong  large  numbers. This  is  how  to  approach  the  expectation. So  we  will  approach  the  expectation, that  is  the  P  Z  divided  by Q  Z  and  the  PDF  is  Q  Z. We  saw  this  before  and  this  cancel  V one.  Then  at  the  top. You  will  also  approach is  going  to  approach  the  expectation  as  well. This  will  be  integral. Now  the  basic  you change  the  Zi  into  a  generic, then  the  becoming  integral. P  Z  divided  by  Q  Z, and  the  PDF  is  Q  Z. So  these  two  cancel  out  and  basically  we  are integrating  the  indicator  z is  smaller  than  A  of  the  P  d  Z. So  this  is  nothing  but  integrating right  from  minus  infinity  to  A  PCC, which  is  exactly  the  CDF,  right. This  is  it  goes  to  the  CDF  of  P. We  have  proven  that.  This  one is  going  to  approach the  CDF  of  P  the  target  description. Here  here  is  not  exactly  equal because  we  are  using  the  asyntptic  of  here. This  is  when  angles  of  infinite. Only  when  large  number  of  gals, then  you'll  be  approximately  equal. That's  why  it's  not  exactly  equal. So  the  roll  me  as  pally  as  angles. Usually  you  want  to  n  to  be  large. Is  basically  the  s  sele  draw  on. Weraw  a  huge  number  of  secles  on  Q. The  reseling  will  replacement  is one  sector  of  the  sectors. We  want  to  make  sure  that  the original  number  of  scle larger  than  n.  Okay. So  here  we  can again  apply  this  for  the  basic  inference. So  on  basic  inference, we  are  going  to  we  want  to semper  from  this  P  data. So  basic.  I  want  to  center  from  the  P  theta, which  is  the  normalized  version, is  the  ad  multiplied  by the  pyro  these  are  version  of  the  PDF. Yeah. Here  again,  if  I  happen  to  have a  pyro  distrition  that is  easy  to  center  from, then  I  can  choose  my  Q, Q  theta  to  equals  to  p  theta. Then  your  w  w your  normalized  wit.  Okay. I  have  one  rights. The  normalized  woods  will be  this  guy  divided  by  the  Q  right. You  can  see  that  this is  a  normalized  version. And  my  Q  is  equal  to the  pyro  you  cancel  out  the  will  cancel  out. So  are  left  the  ho. We  are  basically  computing the  normalized  ho normalized  across  the  seers. And  then  re  the  woods. Last  let's  do  the  questions. Okay.  So  the  questions  are  asking for  what  can  be  used? What  are  possible,  so  don't  reshot  yourself. As  long  as  it  can  be  used  to  say  yes. Okay. So  to  estimate  probabilities  tail probabilities  as  long  as you  can  sample  from  the  distribution, technically,  you  can  always estimate  the  tail  probability. You  basically  sample  from  the  distribution, and  then  you  complete  what's the  fraction  of  semper  bigger  than  A. So  technically  you  should  be  able  to  do  it. So  resumption  sampling. You  can  semble  from  the  distribution. We  thought  that  important  sampling is  a  good  way  to  do  it. Then  sec  important  resembling is  basically  getting  the  samples  directly, of  course,  you  can  estimate,  right. Technically,  the  answer  is  all  the  b but  to  do  this  efficiently, we  saw  that  it's  best  to  use the  important  secl  Important  sembling allows  you  to  estimate this  in  a  more  efficient  way instead  of  sec  directly  from  the  distrition. That's  at  least. Okay.  So  now  we  are  trying to  do  important  scoring. So  yeah.  So  keep  in  mind  that  in  this  case, we  are  competing  the  expectation,  right? So  it's  not  really we  are  not  trying  to  find  the  secs. Okay.  So  we  are  trying to  find  this  expectation,  right. So  this  expectation  is  actually the  integral  of  F  P. So  it  is  the  product  that  matters.  Okay. So  when  I  do  the  s, I  want  to  make  sure  that the  proposal  distribution the  support  set  right the  support  of  the  proposal  distribution includes  the  support  of  the  product, not  just  the  individual  components. So  you  can  see  that  FX  sounds f  equals  to  00  so. I  actually  don't  need  cover  this  part right  because  it's  going  to  be  zero. So  my  proposal  distribution  should cover  should  cover  this  part,  right?  02. Okay.  So  we  can  do  it  the  first  one. This  one  is  fill, right  covers  the  whole  02  can. I  is  okay. Is  z  one. Although  this  p  is  twisted  this  part. For  example  here,  you  will contribute  to  the  estimation. And  this  is  okay. Is  021. This  one  will  be  more  efficient. All  right. So  I  for  this So  to  position  ourselves  for  next. This  is  something  to  take  not  off. Basically,  we  do  centering because  for  example, we  want  to  estimate  expectation. For  example,  in  the  EM  algorithm, we  are  trying  to  estimate  this  Q  function, which  is  an  expectation. So  we  can  try  to  sector  according to  this  conditional  distriion,  get  the  Is, and  then  you  can  compute this  expectation  by  estimating by  using  the  bigger  average. Ser  from  this  conditional  distriion, But  what  we  discussed  today, this  rejection  and  important  cycling. Unfortunately  is  not  suitable  for  sling high  dimensional  dition,  high  dimensional  s. The  z  the  z  is  high  dimensional. So  typically, your  z  is  something  is  a  very  big  factor. For  example,  the  image, the  image  is  like  256  pieces  by  256. So  the  dimension  of  the  z,  is  256  square. So  this  is  a  huge  is a  very  high  dimensional  distion. And  the  components are  correlated  with  each  other, I  cannot  just  sector  z  one, z2z3  individually  because  they  are  all  core. The  one  day  are  definitely  not  suitable. So  that's  all  next  week. We  need  to  talk  about  the  MCMC  technique, MCMC  methods  that  allows  you  to do  this  s  is  sss. I  think  that's  all. Yeah.  So  problems  for  you. Any  final  questions? Okay. Okay.  Yeah.  So  that's  all.  Yeah.  Thank  you. Yes.  I  would  like  to  take  one  papers.  Yeah. The  184  size  reference  sheet. Yes.  So  we  should write  it  by  ourselves,  right?  I  mean. It's  good  to  do  custom, I  mean,  I'm  sure  you  can  ones  online. But  I  think  it's  a  good  practice is  a  way  to  review  the  concept  as  well. Thank  you.
